Blink-182 drummer Travis Barker, who was hospitalized on Tuesday, is reportedly dealing with a bout of pancreatitis. TMZ first reported on Wednesday that the musician, 46, was rushed to the hospital due to pancreatitis, which doctors believe was triggered by a recent colonoscopy. Barker’s representatives did not immediately respond to The Times’ request for comment Wednesday. According to “Entertainment Tonight,” the drummer, who recently married Kourtney Kardashian, “was sick and had intense pain in his abdomen, and it really concerned him and Kourtney.”  “They called 911 and he was rushed to the hospital. After speaking with Travis and running several tests, doctors said Travis is suffering from pancreatitis,” a source told “ET.” According to the Mayo Clinic, pancreatitis is the inflammation of the pancreas. Symptoms, which vary depending on the severity of the inflammation, can include fever, nausea,  vomiting and unintentional weight loss. Dr. Ara Sahakian,  a gastroenterologist  at Keck Medicine of USC, told The Times that pancreatitis caused by a colonoscopy is “extremely rare.” Sahakian said pancreatitis is more common when a patient  experiences trauma during small-intestinal endoscopies. He added that anesthetic medications used during a colonoscopy can trigger  inflammation. Alcohol consumption, passing gallstones and physical trauma are also common causes for pancreatitis, he said.  Barker first went to West Hills Hospital and Medical Center on Tuesday and was then taken by ambulance to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in L.A. for additional care. Photos from TMZ showed Kardashian, 43, walking alongside Barker, who was transported on a stretcher. Sources close to the couple told People on Wednesday that Kardashian “won’t leave” her husband’s side and that treatment includes pain management. Doctors are also assessing Barker’s condition with tests and a modified diet. On Tuesday morning, Travis Barker tweeted, “God save me,” though it’s unclear whether the post was related to his medical problems. Shortly after news broke of Barker’s hospitalization, his daughter, Alabama Barker, urged her social media followers to “please send your prayers.” The 16-year-old also reportedly posted a picture of her holding Barker’s hand on TikTok. That post, which has since been deleted, read “Please say a prayer.” Fellow musicians Kid Cudi and Bebe Rexha also  shared their well wishes. On Tuesday evening, Cudi tweeted, “Travis I love u and im prayin for u.” “Sending @travisbarker good energy and prayers,” tweeted Rexha.