The Angels, mired in a 12-game losing streak that negated a promising start to the season, fired manager Joe Maddon on Tuesday and named third-base coach Phil Nevin as interim manager. Maddon, 68, was in the final year of a three-year, $12-million contract that included a $4-million option for 2022. The Angels were 24-13 and tied for first-place with the Houston Astros in the American League West on May 15 but have lost 16 of 19 games since then to fall to 27-29 and 8½ games behind the Astros. The Angels were swept in a four-game series at home by the Toronto Blue Jays before embarking on a six-game trip in which they were swept by the New York Yankees and Philadelphia Phillies, including Sunday’s 9-7 loss in which they blew leads of four runs in the eighth inning and one run in the ninth to Philadelphia. Monday night’s 1-0 loss to the Boston Red Sox extended their losing streak to 12, a stretch in which the Angels suffered breakdowns in the rotation and bullpen and saw their offense disappear, and that was enough for general manager Perry Minasian to make the change Tuesday. Maddon, who spent three decades with the Angels as a minor league coach and coordinator and big league coach, finished with a 157-172 (.477) record in parts of five seasons as Angels manager, including two interim stints in 1996 and 1999. He was manager Mike Scioscia’s bench coach when the Angels won the World Series in 2002. Maddon has a 1,382-1,216 record in 17 years as a major league manager, which included a highly successful nine-year run in Tampa Bay and five years in Chicago, where he guided the Cubs to their first World Series championship in more than 100 years in 2016. The Angels have not reached the playoffs since 2014, but expectations were higher for 2022 after they fortified their rotation by signing right-handers Noah Syndergaard and Michael Lorenzen and bolstered their bullpen by retaining closer Raisel Iglesias and adding veterans Aaron Loup, Ryan Tepera and Archie Bradley. Six weeks into the season, the Angels appeared to have a team that could end their seven-year playoff drought. The rotation, with a boost from young left-handers Patrick Sandoval and Reid Detmers, who threw a no-hitter, was performing well, and the relief work was stout, for the most part.  Mike Trout, the three-time American League most valuable player who missed most of 2021 because of a right calf strain, got off to a great start, hitting .328 with a 1.129 on-base-plus-slugging percentage, 12 homers and 26 RBIs in his first two games. Right fielder Taylor Ward looked like a Triple Crown threat, hitting .375 with a 1.209 OPS, nine homers and 23 RBIs in his first 29 games; third baseman Anthony Rendon, who missed the second half of 2021 because of a hip injury, returned and delivered several clutch hits; and shortstop Andrew Velazquez, filling in for the injured David Fletcher, looked like a Gold Glove Award candidate. But Ward slammed face-first into a wall to catch a ball on May 15, suffering a neck and shoulder injury and hasn’t been the same hitter since. Rendon suffered a right wrist injury and was placed on the injured list May 28. Trout went into a tailspin at the plate, going hitless for a career-long 26 at-bats before his first-inning single Monday night. Shohei Ohtani has not been able to replicate his 2021 AL MVP season, batting .242 with a .768 OPS, 11 homers and 32 RBIs. The four-game sweep at the hands of the Blue Jays, in which the Angels blew several late leads and suffered three one-run losses, stopped their momentum and seemed to puncture their confidence. They were swept in three games at New York and Philadelphia, blowing leads in the seventh inning or later five times in the 12 games. Their offense produced a .216 average and .596 OPS during the 12-game streak, including a .176 average, .469 OPS and only 12 runs in the last seven games. Their starting pitchers have a 6.88 ERA during the streak; their relievers have a 5.88 ERA. Virtually everything that could go wrong went wrong for the Angels during the losing streak. The games they get good starting pitching, the offense doesn’t produce. The starting pitcher puts them in an early hole, the hitters can’t compensate. There have been key errors on defense.  They take a lead into the later innings, like they did when they led the Phillies 6-2 in the eighth, and the bullpen blows it — Iglesias gave up a score-tying grand slam to Bryce Harper in the eighth, and Jimmy Herget gave up a walk-off, three-run homer to No. 9 hitter Bryson Stott in the ninth. Maddon, mild-mannered and optimistic by nature, stressed patience during the losing streak, rarely showing frustration with or criticizing his players. “I’ve been involved in a lot of firsts,” Maddon said after Monday night’s loss. “This is not one of them that I’d like to have. Regardless of that, my mindset has to be one at a time, one game at a time, win tonight’s game. Try to go 1-0 tomorrow. “I mean seriously, that’s all you can do. If you want to sit and dwell on it, it’ll eat you alive. And it’s not worth that. If you just look around the globe and look at what’s happening, it’s not worth having a baseball game eat you alive.”