The Chargers staged another media availability during organized team activities Wednesday. Theoffseason program will continue for two more weeks before finishing with mandatory minicamp June 14-15. Highlights from Costa Mesa: Almost all hands on deck: After making plenty of headlining additions over the  last few months, the Chargers added another key piece when Joey Bosa showed up on the practice field. The four-time Pro Bowl edge rusher typically waits for minicamp to join the offseason program, but not this year. His early arrival could be an indication of the team’s “growing” — wide receiver Keenan Allen’s word — culture. The Chargers continue to enjoy impressive attendance for their workouts. The only prominent player who has yet to be seen during any of media-viewing portions of OTAs is running back Austin Ekeler. On Wednesday, those involved included veteran holdovers such as  Allen and Mike Williams, along with big-name additions Khalil Mack, J.C. Jackson and Kyle Van Noy. “Those are guys who you don’t expect to be at OTAs,” Allen said. “When we all show up, come out to practice, come to the meetings, it lets you know we got something special going on.” Offensive coordinator Joe Lombardi credited Brandon Staley for the  strong participation rate. Staley is entering his second season in his first head-coaching stint.  “Brandon’s done a very good job of building that team culture here,” Lombardi said. “It’s a good group of guys. It was last year, too. But adding those veterans that have a lot of pelts on the wall, we’re very excited about it.” Veteran sees a differently looking roster: Allen, the longest-tenured Charger, is entering his 10th season and has made the Pro Bowl after each of the last  five. Still, he just turned 30 in April and is on an extension that runs through 2024. “I feel young,” he said. “I feel as strong as I’ve ever been, especially in the weight room. I’m lifting more weight than I ever have. Just trying to feed off these young guys at this point.” While acknowledging the improved culture, Allen also said glancing around the practice field confirms the idea that this is a new era for the franchise. “I wouldn’t say it feels different because the competitor I am I always feel like we’re going to go 16-0 and win the Super Bowl,” he said. “But look differently? Absolutely. Just every position has All-Pros … superstar talent.” Canton-bound Keenan? During his time with the Chargers, Allen has appeared in four playoff games but none since  after the 2018 regular season. Now, he finds himself on a team many observers are touting as a Super Bowl contender, mostly because of Pro Bowl quarterback Justin Herbert and a defense that has been both rebuilt and restocked. Allen was asked about the significance of the Lombardi Trophy being perhaps the one piece missing from his career. He offered an interesting answer. “Absolutely,” Allen said. “I think that helps you get into that gold jacket, you know, faster.” That, of course, was a reference to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. Allen said winning a Super Bowl also brings more respect to a player’s resumé. Putting the ‘Oh!’ in offense? The Chargers are entering their second season with the same offensive coordinator/play caller, quarterback and quarterbacks coach, suggesting improvement via continuity for a unit that was top five in 2021. Lombardi said these OTAs are less stressful as a result since so many  players are familiar with the terminology and basics. He also explained that Herbert’s capacity is expanding. “Justin’s bandwidth is a lot wider for everything,” Lombardi said. “So we can focus on some Football 202-type of stuff rather than just getting in and out of the huddle.” He said Herbert no longer has to burden himself with matters  such as making sure the play call is being relayed correctly. Now, the young quarterback can begin reading defenses quicker. Lombardi said he has learned to appreciate over the last  year the intensity and pursuit of perfection Herbert begins daily. He also praised Herbert’s relentless mental drive. “His stamina for studying and working at it is impressive,” Lombardi said. “[Quarterbacks coach] Shane Day works the heck out of him and he never gets tired. That’s a huge positive.” Regarding right tackle: One position that has remained largely unchanged is right tackle, where Storm Norton returns as the starter after filling in for injured Bryan Bulaga most of last season. Trey Pipkins, a third-round pick in 2019, will challenge Norton for the job in training camp. There are other ways the Chargers could go, but for now it appears to be between Norton and Pipkins. “The great thing about that position is it’s probably a position where people can improve more year to year than maybe some other spots,” Lombardi said. “There’s so much technique involved, understanding where your help is, your set patterns.” Lombardi said the Chargers were encouraged by Pipkins’ play last season when he did get on the field. Pipkins started one game at left tackle and one at right. “We feel like we’re going to be very improved at that position coming out of training camp,” Lombardi said, “whether it’s Storm making improvements or whether Trey shows that he’s the guy. We think that we’ll be a lot better at right tackle.” Tillery is back: Defensive tackle Jerry Tillery returned after being absent last week during media viewing. Other than Ekeler, the most prominent players not present Wednesday were tight ends Gerald Everett and Donald Parham Jr. Linebacker Kenneth Murray Jr. also wasn’t on the field as he continues to rehabilitate from ankle surgery.