In a race that could serve as a test of Orange County’s appetite for criminal justice reform, Orange County Dist. Atty. Todd Spitzer held a significant lead over his three challengers Tuesday night, according to preliminary results. Spitzer could win outright, avoiding a November runoff, if the numbers hold. Also seeking the county’s top prosecutor job were Pete Hardin, a former Orange County prosecutor and Marine veteran; Mike Jacobs, who spent nearly three decades as a prosecutor in the county; and Bryan Chehock, an attorney for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. The race has largely centered on the stark ideological divide between Spitzer and Hardin, the only Democratic candidate. “This election is about one thing — ensuring Orange County remains the safest major county in California, instead of being overrun by the same pro-criminal ideology that has destroyed Los Angeles and San Francisco,” Spitzer said in a statement. “Orange County voters are sending a loud and clear message that they do not want a George Gascón clone as their D.A.” Spitzer has branded himself as a law-and-order candidate, focusing his messaging around punishing criminals to prevent Orange County from becoming like Los Angeles. “I will continue to prioritize the prosecution of violent criminals and hate crimes, while pursuing common-sense criminal justice reforms that do not jeopardize public safety,” Spitzer added. Hardin has said that, if elected, he would not seek the death penalty in any prosecutions. He has also promised to replace cash bail with a risk-based system and to pull back on charging juveniles as adults. Hardin’s ideas align him with some of the more progressive district attorneys in the nation.  Hardin could not immediately be reached for comment Tuesday night. Jacobs has billed himself as a steady hand who can bring reform. Chehock, the only candidate with no connection to the Orange County district attorney’s office, has pledged to “remove politics from the office.” Spitzer, a former county supervisor, was elected four years ago on a vow to bring a new era of reform after a scandal involving the use of jailhouse informants. But his opponents say that he has fallen short on his promises and that his missteps show poor judgment. Spitzer faced criticism after racist comments he made while discussing the case of a Black defendant surfaced in February. Spitzer apologized for the comments, but some political groups and fellow district attorneys withdrew their endorsements. On Friday, Orange County Superior Court Judge Gregg Prickett determined that the comments violated the Racial Justice Act. Orange County voters on Tuesday were also deciding who should fill three seats on the Board of Supervisors, including who should represent the county’s first Latino majority district. Early returns in the race for District 2, which includes a slice of central Orange County, showed Santa Ana Mayor Vicente Sarmiento ahead of Garden Grove Councilwoman Kim Bernice Nguyen. Three other candidates are also vying for the seat. Buena Park Mayor Sunny Park was narrowly ahead of incumbent Supervisor Doug Chaffee in District 4, which includes several northern cities. The county’s Democratic Party endorsed Park instead of Chaffee, who is also a Democrat. Brea City Councilman Steve Vargas, a Republican, is also running. In District 5, encompassing much of south Orange County, incumbent Supervisor Katrina Foley, a Democrat, held a significant lead over her three Republican challengers. Among them, state Sen. Pat Bates, had a slight lead over former Assemblywoman Diane Harkey. Newport Beach Councilman Kevin Muldoon is also a candidate. The winner could determine which political party controls the five-member board, which has been majority Republican for years.