Two people were shot on a San Francisco public transit train Wednesday morning and the shooter is still at large, authorities said. The attack left one person dead and injured the other, who was sent to a nearby hospital, according to a social media post from San Francisco Supervisor Myrna Melgar. The second victim’s injuries were not considered life-threatening, said Cmdr. Raj Vaswani of the San Francisco Police Department. The shooting occurred about 9:54 a.m. inside a San Francisco Muni Metro train between the Forest Hill and Castro stations. The gunman ran out of the train at the Castro station, according to Melgar. There was a heated argument inside the train before shots were fired, Melgar told the Associated Press. “There was an altercation between folks who may have known each other inside the subway before it stopped in Castro,” San Francisco Supervisor Rafael Mandelman told the AP.  No arrests had been made and the investigation was continuing, the San Francisco Police Department said. The attack is not considered an active shooter situation, Melgar added. Transit officials temporarily halted all trains between the Forest Hill and Castro stations and began operating bus shuttles between the transit stops. By 1:45 p.m., train service had resumed, transit authorities said. The shooting occurred the same day as the 100th birthday celebration for the historic Castro Theatre and as San Francisco Pride is gearing up for its annual festivities this weekend. Despite the proximity to the Castro district, a historic LGBTQ neighborhood, the shooting was not believed to be related to the Pride weekend, according to the Police Department. “This incident does not appear to be related to Pride festivities or targeting the LGBTQ community,” the department said in a Twitter post. State Sen. Scott Wiener (D-San Francisco) said in a statement that the shooting happened on “a subway ride [he’d] taken thousands of times over the past 25 years.” “It’s another reminder that as long as our country is awash in guns, shootings can happen anywhere, anytime,” Wiener said. “My heart goes out to the victims, and I know SFPD is working hard to apprehend the shooter.”