A look at what some members of the 2002 Angels are doing now, at last report. Alfredo Amezaga, SS: A coach at the Team Sosa baseball training facility in Miami. Garret Anderson, LF: Working as a part-time analyst on Angels broadcasts for Bally Sports West. Kevin Appier, RHP: Owns and operates a soybean farm in Paola, Kan. Clay Bellinger, 1B: Firefighter in Arizona. Father of Dodgers’ Cody Bellinger. Mickey Callaway, RHP: On MLB’s ineligible list until after the 2022 season for violating MLB policies on harassment while a coach with the then-Cleveland Indians. Dennis Cook, LHP: Currently a youth baseball coach in Texas. Jeff DaVanon, OF: Account manager for an Orange County business. Brendan Donnelly, RHP: Retired and living in Arizona. David Eckstein, SS: Helps wife, actress Ashley Eckstein, run the Her Universe website.  Darin Erstad, CF: Head coach of Nebraska baseball team from 2011 to 2019. Retired and living in Nebraska.  Sal Fasano, C: Catching coach for the Atlanta Braves.  Brad Fullmer, DH: “My most important job these days is dad to my two kids.” Benji Gil, 2B: Currently the infielders coach for the 2022 Angels.  Troy Glaus, 3B: Retired and coaches his son’s youth baseball team. Alfredo Griffin, coach: Left after the 2018 season, coaches occasionally in the Dominican Republic.  Mickey Hatcher, coach: Left after 2018 season, does PR appearances for Dodgers. Adam Kennedy, 2B: Realtor and youth baseball advisor/coach in Orange County. John Lackey, RHP: Retired, an  avid golfer and chauffeur  for three kids. Al Levine, RHP: Retired and living in Belleville, Ill.  Joe Maddon, coach: Recently fired as manager of the Angels. Bengie Molina, C: Part of the Spanish broadcast team for the St. Louis Cardinals. José Molina, C: Was minor league catching coordinator for the Angels until Oct. 15, 2021. José Nieves, IF: Minor league infield coordinator for the Cincinnati Reds.    Orlando Palmeiro, OF: Works with a leadership training group in Florida. Troy Percival, RHP: Resigned as coach of UC Riverside in 2020 to spend more time with his family and help his son reach the majors. Lou Pote, RHP: Baseball director at Playmaker U in Canada. Julio Ramirez, OF: Outfield coach for the Chicago White Sox’s Dominican League team. Francisco Rodríguez, RHP: Last pitched in 2019 for Monclova in the Mexican League. Ron Roenicke, coach: special assistant to the general manager of the Dodgers. Tim Salmon, RF: Coaching a high school baseball team in Scottsdale, Ariz., and working as a part-time analyst on Angels broadcasts for Bally Sports West.  Mike Scioscia, manager: Stepped down as manager after the 2018 season. Managed the 2020 Olympic baseball team. Aaron Sele, RHP: A special assignment scout for the Chicago Cubs.  Scott Spiezio, 1B: Owns a farm in Illinois and gives hitting tips to local youth.  Jarrod Washburn, LHP: Retired as a high school baseball coach and now owns a deer hunting preserve in Wisconsin. Ben Weber, RHP: Operates a chiropractic facility in Alabama. Matt Wise, RHP: Pitching coach for the 2022 Angels. Shawn Wooten, DH: Owner and instructor of Hit Dawg Baseball Academy in Minnesota.