Three people were killed and at least 50 others injured when an Amtrak train headed from Los Angeles to Chicago crashed into a dump truck Monday afternoon in Missouri, officials said. Two of those killed were on the Southwest Chief train, and the other was in the truck, Cpl. Justin Dunn of the Missouri State Highway Patrol said at a news conference in the nearby city of Marceline. About 12:42 p.m., the train, carrying at least 243 passengers and 12 crew members, struck a dump truck that was obstructing a public crossing southwest of Mendon, officials said. The collision derailed eight cars and two locomotives. The train was traveling about 90 mph as it approached the truck, federal officials said. The crash took place at an uncontrolled crossing where the BNSF Railway tracks meet a gravel road. The crossing had no electronic signals to warn traffic, which is common for the area, Dunn said. At least 50 people were injured, according to Eric McKenzie, director of the Chariton County Ambulance District, which operates near Mendon.  Dozens of patients from the crash site began to stream into local hospitals, and some were airlifted in critical condition, officials said. At least three people were transported to University Hospital in Columbia, said Eric Maze, a spokesperson with the University of Missouri Health Care system. University of Missouri Health Care said it was caring for nine patients from the derailment.  Ben Cornelius, a spokesman for Boone Hospital in Columbia, said the facility was expecting 30 patients. The National Transportation Safety Board is sending a team to investigate the crash near Mendon, about 84 miles northeast of Kansas City. Photos shared on social media showed multiple overturned train cars and passengers climbing out of windows. Among them was Dax McDonald, who boarded the Southwest Chief train in Flagstaff, Ariz. Near Mendon, he was looking out the right side of the train and saw a large dump truck moving through a cloud of dust. He recalled the train continuing to travel at a fast speed. “Then a large bang happened and the train lurched forward,” McDonald said. “Next it began tilting toward the right side before violently slamming to the ground.” Video he posted to Twitter showed the inside of the train on its side with disheveled passengers sifting through their toppled luggage. One passenger posted a Facebook Live video moments after climbing out and sitting atop the toppled passenger car. Ambulances and law enforcement patrol cars were transporting both injured and uninjured passengers, Dunn said at the news conference. Members of the public also pitched in, Dunn said, helping drive uninjured passengers into Mendon, where they waited while making travel arrangements. “So thankful for the people here,” McDonald wrote on Twitter, accompanied with photos from Northwestern High School’s gymnasium. “This town pulled together to help everyone.” Missouri Gov. Mike Parson said in a tweet that he was “saddened” to hear of the derailment. He said the Missouri State Highway Patrol and other emergency personnel were responding. “We ask Missourians to join us in praying for all those impacted,” Parson said. Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) called it “terrible news” and said officials were “ready to assist with any federal resources that may be needed.” “We are thinking of all those affected and grateful for our first responders,” he said. The Southwest Chief travels between Chicago and Los Angeles with stops in Kansas City, Albuquerque and Flagstaff, according to Amtrak. The crash came one day after another Amtrak train collided with a car in California’s East Bay, killing at least three people. Eighty-five people were on the train, which was traveling from Stockton to Martinez. There were no reported injuries among the train passengers and crew, officials said.