I am mourning nineteen children I never knew.I am mourning untied shoelaces and velcro straps,unzipped backpacks and incomplete homework.Their good grades in schooland the poor ones too.Their gold stars and the bad marks,their hair braided so tight with bolitasbefore breakfast their head ached until dinner.How they scrunched up their faces attheir baby studs and communion shoes,straps marking their ankles skin-red.How when crossing a street,seeking solace from their feartheir fingers already knewto clutch tight to another’s. I am mourning their two teacherswho looked like my mothermy tíasmy abuelasin an earlier life,younger faces of the people I love.I am mourning the lost lunchesand the lesson plansleft, laid out on their desks.The notes and suggestions to their students,spare thoughts they scribbled to themselves.Every day’s outfit planned before the week beganironed by hand and hung there in the closet,the clothes they will never wear again. In passing,my father berates the Texas policetheir lack of urgencytheir defense of handcuffingparentsfamiliestasing their bodiesto stop them from begging, ripping freeor breaking down the school doors in their fury. I want to ask him,If everyone had been white inside that school,all blonde locks and fair faces,the kind easily found and easily missed,would the police have intervened?Would they have risked their livesto save a child they didn’t claim?Or would they still have left nineteen childrenand their two teachers for dead? But already I know these are not the right questions. Instead, What do we dowhen we’re dying at the handsof a shooter who was one of our own?A boy who shared the rhythm of our nameand spoke the same language withthe same tongue in his mouth,rather than a white manwith a colonized mindand a gun in his handsthis country deems his right to wield? I do not mourn him.I don’t know how. I mourn a community breakingfrom bulletsdeathdecaydeportationassimilationalienationsegregationpunishmentfor seeking a better lifeonly to have it taken away instead. I mourn the children who lived.Who remember those who didn’t.Who now carry the burdens alone. Sofía Aguilar is a Chicana poet based in Los Angeles and author of the forthcoming collection, “STREAMING SERVICE: season two.” @sofiaxaguilar