As he signed the contract extension that made him one of the highest-paid receivers in the NFL, Cooper Kupp said he thought about all the people throughout his life who have contributed to his success along the way. Kupp reflected Thursday on the three-year deal that includes $75 million in guarantees. The extension, signed Wednesday, keeps him under contract through 2026 on a deal that could be worth as much as $110 million. Kupp cited Rams coaches and teammates who  helped the Rams win Super Bowl LVI to cap an historic individual season. “It’s not lost on me, and I’m incredibly thankful for it,” Kupp said during a videoconference with reporters. “There’s so much that goes into this, and I prepare in a way to try to put myself in the best position possible. “But none of it is possible without the guys that I have around me, and that’s the bottom line, point blank, period.”  Kupp, who turns 29 Wednesday, led the league with 145 receptions, 1,949 yards receiving and 16 touchdown catches, becoming the first player in nearly two decades to achieve the so-called triple crown. Kupp caught eight passes, two for touchdowns, in the Rams’ Super Bowl victory over the Cincinnati Bengals at SoFi Stadium and was named the most valuable player of Super Bowl LVI.  He is the third Rams player to receive a massive extension this offseason, joining quarterback Matthew Stafford and defensive lineman Aaron Donald. “We’ve got a lot of guys that take the right approach mentally to be the best versions of themselves first, and then let the business side of things kind of work itself out,” he said. Kupp, a third-round draft pick in 2017, signed an extension before the 2020 season. He said he was more involved in the negotiation process this time.  The Rams concluded a minicamp Thursday with a team meeting. Kupp will prepare this summer as the Rams attempt to become the first team to repeat as Super Bowl champions since the New England Patriots did it in the 2004 season. But there is another order or business to attend to first. “I need to take my wife somewhere regardless of whether the deal got done or not,” he said. “That’s something that needs to happen.”