President Biden and leaders from the Western Hemisphere are set on Friday to sign a much-anticipated declaration that includes commitments to expand legal pathways for migrants and refugees, and more U.S. funding to assist other countries in hosting them. It is unclear how many nations will sign the “Los Angeles Declaration”  in light of boycotts of this week’s Summit of the Americas in Los Angeles by several key Latin American heads of state. But U.S. officials said the administration has secured enough commitments to take serious steps in addressing the migrant crisis. Among the countries that will sign the declaration are Belize, which will give legal status to undocumented migrants who have been living in that country, and Canada, which will boost its refugee resettlement efforts. Mexico also will join the declaration, launching a new temporary labor program for 15,000 to 20,000 workers from Guatemala. The country will expand eligibility for that program to include Honduras and El Salvador “in the medium term,” according to a fact sheet provided by the White House. Mexico is a key player in the region, and its cooperation is essential to stemming the flow of migrants to the U.S. Its participation in the migration agreement was in doubt after Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador decided to skip the summit to protest the U.S. decision to exclude leaders from several countries it considers to be anti-democratic. He sent his foreign minister, Marcelo Ebrard, instead. The leaders of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras also did not attend. As part of its commitment to the migration declaration, the Biden administration plans to dole out $314 million in humanitarian aid, funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development and the State Department. It also will provide H-2B nonagricultural seasonal worker visas to 11,500 nationals of northern Central America and Haiti. Biden also will announce stepped-up efforts in conjunction with other countries  to combat human smuggling. Other countries will also be taking steps to address the jump in the number of migrants traveling to the U.S. Border officials encountered more than 1.7 million migrants along the U.S. southern border in 2021 and more than 1.3 million in the first seven months of this year, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Canada, too, will step up to provide $26.9 million for the 2022-23 fiscal year for migration management and humanitarian aid. Spain will pledge to double the number of labor pathways for Hondurans.  In an email, Theresa Cardinal Brown, managing director of immigration and cross-border policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington, D.C., think tank, characterized the declaration as “a big deal” that “shows how important the issue of migration is to many countries in the Western Hemisphere, not just the United States.” “If it was just about us, it wouldn’t happen,” she wrote. But she cautioned about the challenges ahead in implementing the declaration’s provisions and working out the details. “Our immigration systems are already overtaxed and overburdened — everything from border operations, to USCIS asylum and legal visa adjudications, to immigration courts, to visa offices abroad. All have serious, record-level backlogs and no end in sight,” she  said. “We must address that for any of this to be workable in the short term.”  The declaration caps off a week of meetings among foreign dignitaries, advocates and more than 23 heads of state who convened in  Los Angeles to discuss regional challenges including the COVID-19 pandemic, tackling climate change, economic inequality and migration. Diplomatic cracks over the Biden administration’s decision to exclude the leaders of Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela  have splintered the conference, which is being held in the U.S. for the first time since its inaugural meeting in Miami in 1994. On Thursday, the leaders of Belize and Argentina criticized the decision to leave out some leaders in the region as Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris looked on nearby. John Briceño, the prime minister of Belize, called it “inexcusable” that some leaders were not present. Among  additional actions featured in the migration pact, the Biden administration will pledge to resettle 20,000 refugees from the Americas during the next two years and in coming months resume family reunification parole programs in both Cuba and Haiti, which allows U.S. citizens and permanent residents to apply for parole for their family members in those countries. Costa Rica plans to renew a special temporary complementary protection scheme for migrants from Venezuela, Nicaragua and Cuba. The declaration will  commend efforts by Colombia and Ecuador, which have  enacted policies to welcome some of the more than 6 million Venezuelans who have fled their country in recent years. Colombia will pledge to legalize permits for an additional 300,000  Venezuelan migrants and refugees by the end of August. Savi Arvey, policy advisor on the migrant rights and justice team at the Women’s Refugee Commission, said the declaration included some “positive initial steps,” and  advocates are hoping participating countries will follow through on their pledges. “These are good, initial steps, but as countries work together, we’re hoping for bigger bolder action, especially on international protection,” she said. Louis DeSipio, a political science professor at UC Irvine with  expertise in immigration, said that the declaration’s labeling of migration as a regional challenge and responsibility is important both substantively and symbolically. It “has the potential to slowly reshape migration patterns in the medium- and long-term future in important ways,” he said. But DeSipio believes that while the declaration outlines a multilateral, region-wide approach to migration, rather than the bilateral, largely piecemeal strategies of the past, in the short term that will “probably be of little solace to Latin American migrants in the United States and their family members trying to migrate to the U.S.” “President Biden’s support here is primarily financial, but several Latin American leaders are making substantive contributions by creating new migration opportunities,” DeSipio said. “Over time, if these early efforts are successful … this could create the foundation for more routine labor migration within the Americas, or at least South America.” Tyler Mattiace, an Americas division researcher with Human Rights Watch who closely followed the declaration’s drafting process, said that this type of multilateral approach is long overdue to assist “the millions of people all across the continent who have fled their homes either because of violence or persecution or human rights abuses. “They often face serious abuses that are many times the result of the fact that government either tries to prevent them from seeking protection or make it difficult for them to obtain legal status or implement enforcement strategies to lead to them taking dangerous migration routes where they suffer abuses,” Mattiace said. Mattiace said the declaration is a departure from what’s happening on the ground at the U.S.-Mexico border, where immigration enforcement officials keep expelling asylum-seekers under Title 42, a COVID-19-related health measure first implemented under President  Trump and maintained by Biden. The measure is  tied up in the courts. “The declaration is a major step forward, but it could be meaningless unless Biden immediately does everything possible to restore access to asylum at the U.S. border and ends other abuses, other anti-immigration policies,” Mattiace continued. “The U.S. also has to stop focusing immigration policy on efforts to outsource immigration enforcement to other governments in the region.”