Delvine Meringor of Kenya emerged Sunday as champion of the 37th annual Los Angeles Marathon, with John Korir of Kenya finishing second. Meringor held off Korir’s challenge by about 8 seconds at the finish line, winning the women’s race in 2 hours, 25 minutes and 3 seconds. For the second consecutive year Korir won the men’s race in 2 hours, 9 minutes and 7 seconds. Under marathon rules, elite female runners started the race 16 minutes and five seconds ahead of the men. The elite athletes led the pack of an estimated 15,000 runners from around the country — and the world — covering a 26.2-mile course that spans some of the city’s most iconic neighborhoods. It was the second L.A. Marathon in four months. Last year’s race was moved from March to November because of the pandemic. Most participants in the marathon were expected to take three to five hours to complete the course from downtown Los Angeles to the finish line in Century City. But the elite runners typically finish the race in a little more than two hours. Runners enjoyed ideal weather conditions, with sunny skies and comfortable temperatures — highs in the mid-70s — forecast for much of the day. The 2022 marathon route mirrors last year’s to a T — including a twist at the end that departs from earlier races (before 2021). Runners began at Dodger Stadium and continued through downtown before turning northwest past Echo Park Lake and into Hollywood. Participants using wheelchairs got things started at 6:30 a.m., followed by elite women runners at 6:45 a.m. and elite men at 6:55 a.m. A chorus of taiko drums, cheers, applause and dog howls welcomed runners and wheelchair competitors as they began their journey uphill on 1st Street downtown.  “This is the steepest part and the cheers really help,” said spectator Jess Gonzalez, 33, holding her dog, Shark. Gonzalez and her cousin, Zafer Jelil, woke up at 4 a.m. and drove from their West Valley home to downtown so they could cheer on Gonzalez’s fiancé, Edgar. As a former competitor, Gonzalez said this year’s marathon felt special because it was post-pandemic and because her fiancé, who is Ukrainian, would be running with his country’s flag. She and her cousin held up a sign offering encouragement: “Go! Go! Go! Edgar!” About 8:45 a.m., the Koshin Taiko band took a quick break from playing their drums. They mingled briefly before three runners slowly made their way uphill. Virginia Minami, 58, leader of the group, compared their hours-long performance to those competing in the marathon. “They’re running with their legs,” the Torrance resident said. “And we’re running with our arms.” Minami said she has been with the group since the early ‘90s and remembers when the route would pass by Little Tokyo and the band would start on one side of the street, and quickly hop over to the opposite side to catch those nearing the end. She said the new location is easier on the band but tougher on the competitors because of 1st Street’s steep incline. “I think that’s why we’re here,” she said. “To get the runners up the hill. But I don’t think the pros need us all that much.” In Hollywood, marathon fan Ovid Maximus, 35, wanted to be certain a pair of friends and co-workers noticed him along Sunday’s route. He walked from his apartment three blocks south toward Hollywood Boulevard and Highland Avenue. He was unavoidable. Maximus dressed in an all-neon green suit — running shirt, sleeves, shorts and socks — while he carried a homemade sign with red, white and blue lettering that read: “Hurry Up!!! I need to cross Hollywood Blvd.” “I wanted to have fun and cheer on my friends,” said Maximus,  who wore all green except for white sneakers, black shades and a backpack. “If they’re going to do all this work, at least I can support them.” Maximus, who had been cheering since 8:15 a.m., said he is not much of a runner and would “never consider” running himself. But Sunday marked his third marathon as a spectator, as he supported other friends in 2017 and 2018. “I like coming here and like I said, it’s all about having fun,” Maximus said. “It’s something we can all get excited about.” As for post-race celebrations, Maximus has an ideal spot. “As soon as my friends pass me, I’m heading back home and getting into bed,” he said. “This is too early.” Several runners stopped to pose for selfies alongside Oscar statues placed at the entrance to Hollywood Boulevard’s Dolby Theatre, which will host the Academy Awards next Sunday. The setting was perfect for Carson native Albert Navarro, 29, who left his home at 6 a.m. to support his brother, race entrant Luis Navarro, 31. The elder Navarro had yet to reach the 11-mile marker near Hollywood and Highland by 9 a.m. “He’s been training for this for a while, so I know he wants to do well,” Navarro said. Wearing a Mt. San Antonio College sweatshirt, where he works, Navarro clasped his brother’s 2021 L.A. Marathon medal as he searched the crowd for his face. Last year’s time was imprinted on the medal — 4 hours, 37 minutes and 4 seconds — and Albert Navarro said he believed that his brother would surpass that time this year. When asked if he would consider joining his brother on the course next year, Albert Navarro laughed underneath his black surgical mask. “I would have to train for a year for that,” he said. “That would be a lot of work. Maybe too much.” While some wore scarves, jackets and hats, all members of the Los Angeles Football Club’s fan-driven Black and Gold running club were clad in the team’s colors for Sunday’s marathon. About 20 shouted, rang cowbells and cheered, while one waved a large banner with the club’s logo near the intersection of Hollywood Boulevard and North Las Palmas Avenue. Corona native Neal Tyner, 39, the group’s founder, said this was year No. 3 for the group at the marathon and his first on the sidelines after competing in previous events. “Seeing the passion from the runners and the boost they get from us being out here is great,” Tyner said. “We love being a part of this.” Tyner said the group consists of around 100 LAFC fans from throughout Southern California, who all share a passion for soccer and running. “This is the perfect place for our community to be with runners from all over the area and to be with LAFC fans from all over,” he said. Tyner said the group entered about 25 runners in November’s marathon and scaled down to 10 this time to give many, including himself, a break. Last year’s race was moved from March to November because of the pandemic. The group previously participated in the Rose Bowl Half Marathon in January and Las Vegas’ Rock ‘n’ Roll Marathon last month. “We’re excited about our runners out there, but also just excited to see our group grow and be a part of this iconic event,” he said. In Century City, Amanda Phillips, 36, said she traveled from her home in Hood River, Ore., to compete in Sunday’s marathon. It was apparently worth the trip. The 36-year-old was the first American female to finish the race Sunday at roughly 2 hours and 35 minutes, beating her personal record. She was met  just past the finish line with hugs from family members. A few minutes later, she spoke to the crowd from the winner’s podium with an American flag draped around her neck. “I’m proud of working through the hard parts of this course,” she said. “It’s a course you definitely have to be mentally tough for.” This was Eloise Stanton’s first marathon and, against all odds, she wound up winning the general women’s category, beating all her non-competitive female challengers with a 7:03-average mile. “It was really cool. It was a lot lonelier than I thought it would be,” she said near the finish line Sunday morning with her new L.A. Marathon medal around her neck. “It was pretty easy until the 19th mile.“ Despite her impressive finish, the 26-year-old Mar Vista resident says she didn’t do anything special to prepare for the race other than run a lot, as she usually does, and limit her drinking of alcohol. “I ran 20 miles two weeks ago to see if I could do it,” she said. “But I run 10 miles every morning, and I only drank on St. Patrick’s Day.” After the adrenaline wears off, she said her next stop will be a bar. “I’m going to start drinking on the Westside,” she said. After an only-oatmeal breakfast and finishing with an impressive time, she feels like she’s earned a margarita or two. 