Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson has the support of 58% of Americans, according to a Gallup poll released Wednesday, the highest approval of any Supreme Court nominee since 2005, when Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. had 59% approval. But the public is also sharply divided along partisan lines. While 88% of Democrats said they approved of President Biden’s choice for the high court and said she should be confirmed, only 31% of Republicans agreed. The partisan divide has been on display in the Senate Judiciary Committee as well. Chairman Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) opened Wednesday’s session by lauding Jackson for showing “grace under pressure” during the hearings and accused several Republicans of using the hearing as “a showcase for talking points for the November election.” He said the record shows Jackson is “in the mainstream of sentencing when it comes to child pornography cases,” despite charges by several Republicans that she had been lenient toward those defendants. But Sens. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and John Kennedy (R-La.) accused Durbin of overstepping his authority as chair by using his time to critique Republicans who questioned the judge. In recent years, the high court nominees have been approved on party line votes in the Judiciary Committee.  President Trump’s nominees had somewhat less public support, Gallup said. Justice Amy Coney Barrett was supported by 51% at the time of her nomination in October of 2020, Justice Neil M. Gorsuch had the support of 45% in 2017 and Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh was supported by 41% in 2018. Despite the frosty start on Wednesday, the committee hearing returned to a more familiar proceeding as Jackson was given a chance to explain how she decides cases as a judge and how she views constitutional issues like search and seizures. When asked about her “judicial philosophy,” she said she applied a “methodology” for deciding cases as a judge. She said she does not have “an overarching theory of law” that is popular in “academia” but has a practical approach. “I look at the facts, the text of the law and principles” set by court precedents, she said. “I look at cases impartially, and I understand my limited role.” Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse agreed. “I didn’t know you needed a judicial philosophy,” he said, arguing it can be cover for justifying highly conservative rulings. He described originalism as a “doctrine of convenience” which conservatives use in some cases but not others. He cited the example the role of corporations and the political power they wield. “In the founding era, there was no expectation corporations would have any role” in politics or the economy, he said. But in the 19th century, when railroads and corporations grew powerful, the Supreme Court ruled they had the same rights as people to challenge government regulations, he said. And in the 2010 Citizens United ruling, the high court struck down federal spending laws and said corporations had a right to spend unlimited sums on campaigns. No one thought the freedom of speech in the 1st Amendment was originally intended to protect corporate speech.  On the current court, Justices Clarence Thomas, Samuel A. Alito Jr. and Neil M. Gorsuch, the three most conservative justices, often say that rely on the original meaning of a constitutional provision when deciding cases. Other members of the court — liberals and conservatives — say they begin with the words of the Constitution, but that alone does not decide a case. Jackson described her approach when discussing the issue of searches and seizures in the era of smart phones. The 4th Amendment forbids “unreasonable searches” by the government, and it generally requires police to have a search warrant before they enter a home or look through someone’s papers and files. Jackson cited the 2014 case of Riley vs. California, where the court decided officers need a warrant before they download the contents of a  smartphone. She said that even though the framers of the Constitution did not imagine  smartphones, the justices reasoned that people have vast amounts of personal information on their phones that they used to keep at home. Therefore, it should remain private unless officers can show evidence of a crime in progress, she said. When pressed, Jackson said she did not want to attach a label to her approach, other than that she would be fair, neutral and pragmatic. Following Tuesday’s 13-hour session, Durbin said he hoped for a shorter day on Wednesday. Senators will have up to 20 minutes each during a second round of questioning. Jackson, 51, who has worked as a federal district judge for most of the last decade, said she sentenced more than 100 criminals to prison, and she rejected the charges that she handed down shorter than average prison terms.