Rams coach Sean McVay continues to annually accumulate new toys. Before last season, general manager Les Snead delivered to McVay quarterback Matthew Stafford, one of the NFL’s elite passers. At midseason, the Rams added star receiver Odell Beckham Jr. to complement a receiving corps that included Cooper Kupp, Robert Woods and Van Jefferson. The Rams went on to win the Super Bowl. On Thursday, McVay got another weapon: The Rams agreed to terms with free-agent receiver Allen Robinson, an eight-year veteran who has amassed more than 1,000-yards receiving in a season three times. Terms were not disclosed but the three-year deal includes about $31 million in guarantees, according to several reports. Robinson’s acquisition can be viewed as an embarrassment of riches for the Rams — or an insurance policy of sorts. Woods, who turns 30 next month, is recovering from a knee injury that ended his season in November, one day after Beckham signed with the Rams as a free agent.  Beckham, 29, is recovering from a knee injury suffered during the Rams’ victory over the Cincinnati Bengals in Super Bowl LVI at SoFi Stadium. Beckham is an unrestricted free agent, and as of Thursday had not announced who will employ him next season, when he is not expected to be available until midseason. Beckham’s potential market suffered because of the injury. He said during the season that he enjoyed living and playing in Los Angeles, and so the opportunity to remain in Southern California and rehabilitate his knee under the direction of the Rams staff might entice him to sign another short-term, incentive-laden deal with the Rams before testing the market again. The Rams now have three receivers with hefty salary-cap numbers. Kupp this season will carry a cap number of $18.7 million and Woods $15.7 million, according to overthecap.com. Robinson’s number, with a deal that reportedly could be worth as much as $45 million, might not be too far off. Regardless, the 6-foot-2, 220-pound Robinson provides play-caller McVay and Stafford with another legitimate threat.  Robinson, 28, played at Penn State and was a second-round pick by the Jacksonville Jaguars in the 2014 draft. In 2015, he was voted to the Pro Bowl after catching 80 passes for a career-best 1,400 yards and a career-best 14 touchdowns. In 2018, Robinson signed a three-year, $42-million contract with the Chicago Bears. He caught 98 passes for 1,147 yards and seven touchdowns in 2019, and  followed that performance with 102 catches for 1,250 yards and six touchdowns in 2020. Last season, playing on a $17.9-million franchise tag, he was slowed or sidelined because of COVID-19 and a hamstring injury. He played in 12 games, catching 38 passes, one for a touchdown. But with the Jaguars and Bears, Robinson never played with a quarterback who possesses anything close to the arm talent and experience that Stafford demonstrated last season while passing for 41 touchdowns. This is the second year in a row that the Rams have acquired a high-profile receiver in March. Before last season, they signed veteran DeSean Jackson, a move made to provide the strong-armed Stafford with a deep threat. But Jackson was unhappy with his limited role in an offense that featured Kupp and Woods. The Rams released Jackson after the trade deadline in November, opening the door for the signing of Beckham. Beckham, accustomed to being a No. 1 receiver, blended in an offense that featured Kupp even more prominently after Woods was injured during practice the day after Beckham arrived. If Robinson similarly blends, McVay has a chance to expand what is already one of the NFL’s most dynamic offenses.