Racecar driver Tony Stewart is chasing history in Indiana, listing his palatial 415-acre retreat for $30 million. It’s the priciest home currently for sale in the state, and if Stewart gets his price, it will be one of the most expensive deals ever in the area. At first glance, the property looks more like a Bass Pro Shop than a home. That’s because it pretty much is. Stewart started assembling the compound in 2004, and over the last 18 years, he transformed it into a hunting and fishing paradise with animals and amenities galore. Dubbed Hidden Hollow Ranch, the estate is located in the relatively small city of Columbus, Stewart’s hometown,  about an hour south of Indianapolis. At the center sits a 20,000-square-foot cabin built from lodgepole pine from the northern Rocky Mountains. That’s not the only sourced material; the colossal cabin pulls from every part of the country with stone from Texas, custom light fixtures from Utah and an antler chandelier from Alaska. In terms of design, the great room is more or less modeled after a Bass Pro Shop. A wooden bridge traverses a koi-filled creek at the entry, leading to a two-story waterfall dotted with realistic wildlife figures including a deer, ram and turkey. A buffalo head tops the fireplace, and at the center of the voluminous space, there’s an 8,700-gallon freshwater aquarium stocked with largemouth bass, bluegill, carp, gar, perch and crappie. Elsewhere are six bedrooms and 9.5 bathrooms. Amenities include a kitchen with a hibachi grill, gym, bowling alley, golf simulator, poker room, billiards room and onyx bar. In the memorabilia room, a formula racing car is mounted on the wall.  Other structures include a 3,500-square-foot guesthouse and workshop. The estate can be either be used privately or commercially, as it has been zoned as a bed and breakfast. It has also been zoned as a hunting preserve, and the land is loaded with elk, deer and turkey. There’s also a nine-acre lake stocked with fish. Calling the place his dream home, Stewart said the estate is “the perfect blend of entertainment and relaxation.” A three-time NASCAR Cup Series champion, Stewart is the only driver ever to win a championship in both IndyCar and NASCAR. The Indiana native was inducted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame in 2020. Carrie Holle of Compass Indiana holds the listing.