On his many journeys out of Griffith Park, the mountain lion known as P-22 arrived in Silver Lake on Tuesday evening, startling an otherwise quiet residential neighborhood. The 120-pound mountain lion has made his home base in the park for a decade but has been known to roam the Hollywood Hills, and even settled in a Los Feliz basement at one point. Around 7 p.m. Tuesday, P-22 was spotted on Berkeley Circle in Silver Lake, about 3½ miles south of Griffith Park. The National Park Service, which tracks and monitors P-22, confirmed the mountain lion passed through the area. The most recent ping from his radio collar showed him east of the Silver Lake Reservoir around 3 a.m. “If you see a mountain lion, please give them space,” National Park Service spokesperson Ana Cholo said. “Don’t try to get a selfie. P-22 has had his paparazzi moments, and people have to realize he’s a wild animal.” Grainy photos of the cougar shared on social media showed him sporting his radio collar as he slinked around plastic trash bins, adobe-style garage facades and the narrow streets of Silver Lake’s residential neighborhood. Residents reported sightings and warned neighbors to be aware and stay cautious if they were out walking.    Chris Blim, who lives on Berkeley Circle, said he was standing in the street talking to his friend when something triggered a light on his neighbor’s doorbell camera. He and the creature locked eyes. At first he thought the animal was a coyote, but he quickly realized it was a mountain lion, Blim said. “We’re just standing there looking at each other and the light goes off,” he said. “The only thing you see is the eyes, and that’s when the heart drops. This is not a house cat.” Blim said he took a video of the itinerant feline on his phone. He and his friend then moved to the safety of Blim’s home, where they knew they’d at least have a gate between themselves and the cougar. “Ultimately it’s pretty awesome,” he said. “The whole neighborhood’s excited.” By Wednesday morning, dog walkers and joggers making their way around Berkeley Circle buzzed with excitement over the newest neighbor. “There are so many questions about why the mountain lion is here,” Eric Pierce said during a morning walk with his two dogs, El Chapo and Chucho. “Is it because he’s looking for a mate, for food? Why is he willing to take such a risk?” Pierce’s neighbor, Vincent Lopez, has lived on the street for 26 years and said the most he’s ever seen are coyotes darting around the neighborhood. “I just hope he’s OK. There are just so many things that could happen,” Lopez said, noting that cars often drive through the narrow streets quickly. “It’s certainly alarming to know that he was just around the corner,” he added. While Pierce and Lopez were talking, another neighbor called from across the street: “Did you hear about the mountain lion? I’m telling all my neighbors with cats.” Alex Papademas, who has lived in the neighborhood for eight years, has seen skunks, coyotes and opossums during his walks with his dog, Daisy. But a mountain lion would take those wildlife encounters to a new level. “We did end up bringing in the cats last night,” Papademas said.