The ostensible purpose of my sit-down with Los Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva was to talk about his department’s Latino makeup and outlook. It took a bizarre detour when he began to offer random, tone-deaf pronouncements about the Black community for reasons known only to him. But throughout our one-hour chat, for which he arrived late but nevertheless gave me a tad more than his promised 60 minutes, el sheriff offered all sorts of insights, each more out there — and telling of his Nixonian nature — than the other. Here’s a grab bag of them: When I pointed out that we have many “nice pictures” of him smiling or looking like, well, a sheriff, he said I didn’t make him look bad; my colleague Alene Tchekmedyian made “a specialty of that,” along with our former  colleague Maya Lau: “It says a thousand words. If you want to try to make the person look sinister, in some way or untrustworthy, you guys find a way to take a photo to do that. But you’ll never do that of Newsom.”    OK, I laughed at that.   “Except [George] Gascón,” I blurted, referring to L.A. County’s progressive, embattled district attorney, who was born in Cuba and whose recall Villanueva publicly supports. Upon hearing Gascón’s name, Villanueva got a bemused look on his face. “Yeah, he’s just an oddball from that [Cuban] crowd,” the sheriff said. Well, he played a game, I’d say. Villanueva waged a public battle against the Board of Supervisors and Department of Public Health to defy the mandate. In the past, he reasoned it was a government “intrusion” that infringed on the personal choice of his deputies, and the push was causing a “mass exodus” that endangered the public. In our interview, he clarified his stance. “When you want to impose a mandate on your workforce, you better damn well know who your workforce is,” Villanueva said. And who is his workforce? He said that his deputies as a department were so anti-vaccine that he placed an “extremely good” 2021 L.A. Times guest op-ed that detailed the seven stages of severe COVID-19 on the internal web page that all L.A. County sheriff’s employees must log on to, to access their work. Villanueva also publicly urged them to get vaccinated, and even offered internal Zoom sessions alongside his command staff  with the same message. But Villanueva never forced his pandejo deputies to get the vaccine, he says, or tried to shame them into getting a jab. “Because as soon as you mandate something, especially people that are suspicious of government,” he explained, “they believe in all these conspiracy theories. You know they’re out there, especially on the  right — the conservative crowd in the far right. “And what is 80% of my workforce?” Villanueva continued. “Conservative and far right.”  “If I don’t get elected, no hard feelings,” he said. “This job is almost like being president. You get more gray hairs than when you started.” Shocking, isn’t it? “No, no, no, no, no,” he said when I threw out the term to see how he’d react. “The Spanish language does not accept ‘Latinx.’” He went on to ridicule people who use it and “their preferred pronouns and all that s—” in an attempt at inclusivity. “Latinx” to Villanueva is “kind of a modern creation ... where the average Latino says, ‘Screw you.’ The entire language is based on gender. Everything has a gender. Inanimate objects have a gender. El árbol — it’s not la árbol, it’s el árbol.” If Villanueva doesn’t get reelected, maybe there’s a career in etymology for him?