The biggest shock at the 2022 Oscars came when “King Richard” star Will Smith slapped Chris Rock on live TV after the comedian made a joke about the actor’s wife, Jada Pinkett Smith. Rock, who was tapped to announce the award for documentary feature, made a punchline out of Pinkett Smith’s bald hairstyle, prompting Smith to rush the stage to confront him. Pinkett Smith has been open about her struggles with alopecia. Oscar viewers and celebrities took to Twitter after the exchange to call out Smith for being unable to take a joke and condemned the eventual Oscar winner for setting a dangerous example on how to react to comedians.  “Let me tell you something, it’s a very bad practice to walk up on stage and physically assault a Comedian,” comic Kathy Griffin tweeted. “Now we all have to worry about who wants to be the next Will Smith in comedy clubs and theaters.” “Stand-up comics are very adept at handling hecklers. Violent physical assault... not so much #UgliestOscarMoment_Ever,” tweeted “Star Wars” actor Mark Hamill. Some pointed out that Smith was defending his wife, while others used the occasion to speak out against the violence or about comments Black women and other marginalized folks often are forced to endure in the name of “comedy.”   “Many takes on here about Will Smith and Chris Rock, especially from people whose partners are not Black women (mainly white people),” tweeted author Frederick Joseph. “I don’t care if it’s a joke or not, the amount Black women have to endure — people are tired of it. We have no idea what Jada has gone through.” Rapper Nicki Minaj was among those in disbelief but said she didn’t think Rock would have made the joke “had he known what Jada recently shared.” Still, she found it hard to believe that he and “the whole team @ the #Oscars” were unaware of Pinkett Smith’s health struggle. “Here’s the thing…,” Minaj tweeted. “And this is such an AMAZING - EYE OPENING example of it ... The husband gets a front row seat to his wife’s pain… he’s the 1 consoling her… drying her tears behind closed doors when those cameras go off. Social media has made ppl feel that these ‘husbands’ won’t ever run into them in real life.” “You just got to witness in real time what happens in a man’s soul when he looks over to the woman he loves & sees her holding back tears from a ‘little joke’ at her expense,” she added. “This is what any & every real man feels in that instant. while y’all seeing the joke he’s seeing her pain” “The Good Place” actor Jameela Jamil also stood up for Black women and noted that both Smith and Rock were in the wrong. “Chris punched down. Will slapped across. Physical behavior is not the only thing to be examined here. The world politely laughing at a woman who has lost her hair, being ridiculed on a world stage … ,” she wrote on Instagram.  “Tonight shouldn’t be the start of hitting people over their jokes, but it should be the end of making fun of people’s health issues.” Others remained in Smith’s corner, including rapper 50 Cent, who made light of the situation by posting an image of Smith’s tearful acceptance speech and tweeting, “You have to win Oscars to do this kinda s—. after i win i’m gonna slap the s— out of a few people. LOL” See more reactions to the exchange below.       