After a failed gubernatorial bid last fall, Caitlyn Jenner has found a new gig: She’s been hired as a Fox News contributor. The former reality star and Olympic gold medalist will offer commentary and analysis across the Fox News Channel and various Fox News media platforms, the cable network announced in a statement Thursday. Jenner, 72, will make her official debut Thursday night on “Hannity,” on which she has appeared before. “I am humbled by this unique opportunity to speak directly to Fox News Media’s millions of viewers about a range of issues that are important to the American people,” added Jenner, who ran as a Republican outsider during California’s recall election last fall, in a press statement. “Caitlyn’s story is an inspiration to us all. She is a trailblazer in the LGBTQ+ community and her illustrious career spans a variety of fields that will be a tremendous asset for our audience,” said Fox News Media CEO Suzanne Scott. The former Olympic decathlete has positioned herself as a high-profile transgender woman since coming out on the cover of Vanity Fair in 2015. When launching her campaign bid as a Republican in April 2021, the outspoken star said she planned to take on entrenched Sacramento politicians and the special interests that fund them. The move also came as vocal segments of her party are pushing dozens of bills to curtail rights for transgender people across the nation.  As the first national celebrity to enter the recall race, Jenner was immediately compared to former California  Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and former President Donald Trump, the most recent examples of celebs turned politicos, The Times reported. Jenner has remained a prominent voice on Twitter, advocated for the transgender community through her Caitlyn Jenner Foundation and called for federal legislation protecting women’s sports. The “I Am Cait” alum ultimately lost the recall bid, drawing only about 1% of voters last fall. The political novice was not embraced by the Republican party in her bid to replace Gov. Gavin Newsom, nor did she have the support of the LGBTQ community or the endorsements of her famous family members — the Kardashian reality stars among them. At her election night party, she boasted that she “can get all the free media in the world.” Jenner, who frequently appeared in her family’s long-running E! reality series, “Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” will not be appearing in  their new  series, “The Kardashians,” which debuts on Hulu in April.