California author Reyna Grande will join the L.A. Times Book Club on March 29 to discuss “A Ballad of Love and Glory.” Watch Grande in a live conversation with Times editor Steve Padilla starting at 6 p.m. PT on Twitter, YouTube and Facebook. Sign up on Eventbrite here. Grande’s historical novel is set in the Mexican-American War, transporting readers to 1846 as the U.S. Army marches south to the Rio Grande. As the war intensifies, so does the relationship between Grande’s main characters, a Mexican nurse who loses her family’s ranch and an Irish soldier named John Riley who deserts the U.S. Army to fight on the Mexican side. Riley fought with the St. Patrick’s Battalion, a unit of mostly Irish immigrants. Grande says she discovered almost half of the U.S. Army was composed of foreign-born soldiers, mostly Irish, German and Italian. “I really wanted it to be historically accurate,” Grande said in a recent interview with The Times. “I didn’t want to take too many liberties with the story and risk having the reader question its authenticity. So I tried to stay true to the timeline, the way the events unfolded.”  “You could Google anything I write in the book and you’ll see that it’s true. The war took place over two years, so that was my timeline, starting in March 1846 and until right after the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was ratified in 1848.” Grande’s previous books include “The Distance Between Us,” a bestselling 2012 memoir about her own childhood torn between Mexico and California. “A Ballad of Love and Glory” is the book club’s March selection. In April, we’re reading “Call Us What We Carry,” a new collection by Los Angeles poet Amanda Gorman. Gorman joins book club readers on April 23 at the Festival of Books, where she will be in conversation with Orange County poet laureate Natalie J. Graham. The free event will be at 11:30 a.m. on the L.A. Times Stage at USC. The full Festival of Books lineup is online here. Sign up for the L.A. Times Book Club newsletter to become part of our community book club. We’ll keep you updated on the latest reads, discussions, giveaways and live events.