Congressional leaders reached an agreement early Wednesday on a massive $1.5-trillion spending bill — including $13.6 billion in aid for Ukraine — to keep the government’s doors open for the next six months but faced internal squabbling over additional funding to fight the pandemic. The bill includes more than $4 billion to assist Ukraine and others in eastern Europe grappling with the millions of refugees fleeing the former Soviet republic after it was invaded two weeks ago by Russia. Nearly $7 billion would cover the transfer of U.S. military equipment to Ukraine and its allies, as well as the deployment of American troops and equipment to other countries in the region. President Biden has said he would not send troops to Ukraine. “This bill responds to Russia’s unprovoked war of aggression [and] vicious invasion of Ukraine with $13.6 billion in emergency assistance to support the people of Ukraine and their neighbors,” said House Appropriations Chairperson Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.). The 2,741-page bill, which funds the government through the end of the fiscal year, is expected to be approved by the House today and by the Senate later this week. The government runs out of funding on Friday evening without further action. It is uncertain whether delays in the Senate would prompt a brief shutdown, so the House also planned to enact a short-term measure to prevent that. Overwhelming bipartisan support for getting the Ukraine money out the door quickly enough to be effective propelled agreement on the rest of the bill. Congress hasn’t been able to enact a fulsome spending agreement since Oct. 1. But even that bipartisan grease only accomplished so much. Democratic leaders scrambled on Wednesday to quell an uprising from their own members over another portion of the bill that would have directed $15.6 billion to combat the COVID-19 pandemic with additional vaccines and testing at home and abroad. At the demand of Republicans who are skeptical of more COVID spending, the funding was redirected from unspent money previously sent to states. Rank-and-file Democrats protested the clawback, forcing Democratic leaders to delete the whole COVID funding provision in order to get the bill approved. Underscoring the frenetic negotiations playing out in Speaker Nancy Pelosi‘s office, Democrats held open a separate House floor vote for hours to eat up time so they could keep talking.  “Things are going exactly according to plan,” House Rules Committee Chairman Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) said sarcastically on the House floor  as he withdrew the procedural measure on the original bill and announced that an altered bill would be introduced. “Everything is beautiful in its own way.” Democrats had earlier hailed the funding as necessary to protect against emerging COVID-19 variants. Pelosi (D-San Francisco) called the removal “heartbreaking.” Given the GOP’s reluctance to approve additional pandemic-related  spending without offsets, a separate bill appears unlikely to be approved “What should be a slam dunk for Democrats as the party of science and public health has become yet another intraparty battle — and one that leaves the nation more vulnerable to future surges,” Rep. Jake Auchincloss (D-Mass.) said in a statement. Also causing consternation was the brief amount of time lawmakers had to read the bill. The text came out  early   Wednesday  with expectations of a midday  vote — not enough time to comb through nearly 2,500 pages of text and more than a billion dollars in spending.   The bill is stocked with other measures, including the first use of congressional earmarks — or money targeted at specific projects — since 2011. Among its other policies is the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, money for Biden’s “cancer moonshot” to cure the disease and a boost in Pell grants for students. It also calls for a plaque to be placed on the west front of the Capitol honoring the police officers who responded to the Jan. 6, 2021, insurrection. Democrats are relieved to see a 6.7% boost in domestic spending over the most recent spending agreements enacted under the Trump administration. Republicans countered with a 5.6% increase in defense spending.