SUNDAY Live from sunny Santa Monica Beach, it’s the “2022 Film Independent Spirit Awards” co-hosted by Nick Offerman and Megan Mullally. 5 p.m. IFC  “Bridgerton” meets “The Bachelorette” as a young American woman seeks romance in a Regency era setting in the new reality series “The Courtship.” 8 p.m. NBC Return with us now to Hope Valley in a ninth season of “When Calls the Heart.” With Erin Krakow. 8 p.m. Hallmark Channel “If Walls Could Talk” they might tattle on the home healthcare worker a woman hires to look after her widowed mother in this new TV movie. 8 p.m. Lifetime  Kandi Burruss of “The Real Housewives of Atlanta” gets into the restaurant biz in her latest spinoff series, “Kandi & the Gang.” 9 p.m. Bravo Do you believe in Magic? And Kareem? The greatest squad in NBA history hits the hardwood in the new fact-based series “Winning Time: The Rise of the Lakers Dynasty.” With John C. Reilly. 9 p.m. HBO  Sam Heughan and Caitriona Balfe return as 18th century “it” couple Jamie and Claire Fraser in a sixth season of “Outlander.” 9 p.m. Starz Dr. Hamed (Hamza Haq) clocks in for a second season of the Canadian-made medical drama “Transplant.” 10 p.m. NBC More “oopsy-babies” are on the way in new episodes of the unscripted series “Unexpected.” 10 p.m. TLC That creepy Connecticut mansion is haunted — haunted, I tells ya! — in the new horror comedy “Shining Vale.” With Courteney Cox, Greg Kinnear and Mira Sorvino. 10:21 and 10:51 p.m. Starz MONDAY “The Chelsea Detective” investigates murders in that posh London borough in this new mystery drama. With Adrian Scarborough. Anytime, Acorn TV Dolly Parton hosts “The 57th Academy of Country Music Awards” as the annual ceremony moves from broadcast TV to live streaming. 5 p.m. Amazon Prime “The Women Tell All,” as is their wont, in this new episode of “The Bachelor.” 8 p.m. ABC TUESDAY The athletic offspring of sports stars strive for success in their own fields in the new docuseries “Legacy: In the Shadow of Greatness.” Anytime, Discovery+ An up-and-coming comic cracks wise about dating, depression, etc., in the standup special “Taylor Tomlinson: Look at You.” Anytime, Netflix Host Joe De Sena says “Jump!” and his recruits say “How high?!” in the new series “No Retreat: Business Bootcamp.” 7 and 10 p.m. CNBC Melissa Etheridge, “OITNB’s” Lea DeLaria and others celebrate the founder of a groundbreaking lesbian magazine in the 2020 documentary “Ahead of the Curve.” 8 p.m. Starz “The Thing About Pam” is, she’s a homicidal Midwest suburbanite played by two-time Oscar winner Renée Zellweger in this new true-crime drama. 10 p.m. NBC If you don’t already have high cholesterol, you will after watching the new Texas-set foodie series “Deep Fried Dynasty.” 10 and 10:30 p.m. A&E WEDNESDAY The new docuseries “The Andy Warhol Diaries” paints an intimate portrait of the iconic Pop artist using his own words and, thanks to a little digital fakery, his own voice. Anytime, Netflix Go medieval one last time as the historical drama “The Last Kingdom” returns for a fifth and final season. Anytime, Netflix Online gamers assemble to try to stop a killing spree in the new docuseries “Perfect World: A Deadly Game.” Anytime, Peacock The outwitting, outplaying and outlasting will continue until morale improves in a new season of “Survivor.” Jeff Probst hosts. 8 p.m. CBS A fresh batch of otherwise unrecognizable celebrities will compete in a new season of “The Masked Singer.” Nick Cannon hosts. 8 p.m. Fox Everybody is still “Kung Fu” fighting in a second season of the rebooted action drama. With Olivia Liang. 9 p.m. The CW They’re settin’ ’em up just to knock ’em down in the new series “Domino Masters.” “Modern Family’s” Eric Stonestreet hosts. 9 p.m. Fox “Good Trouble,” the L.A.-set spinoff of the 2013-18 family drama “The Fosters,” is back for Season 4. 9:59 p.m. Freeform Meet a homo sapien who specializes in all things apian in the new docuseries “Bee Czar.” 10:18 p.m. Discovery Channel THURSDAY Four best buds are working hard — or rather, hardly working — at a casino in Gary, Ind., in the new sitcom “Bust Down.” Anytime, Peacock Humanity’s hope of finding a new home among the stars is explored in Rudolph Herzog’s 2022 documentary “Last Exit: Space.” The director’s father, legendary filmmaker Werner Herzog, narrates. Anytime, Discovery+ Gal pals on vacay in the Mojave have a close encounter of the disturbing kind in the 2022 sci-fi terror tale “The Seed.” Anytime, Shudder Howdy, sheriff! “Preacher’s” Dominic Cooper trades his cleric’s collar for a tin star in the dark new western drama “That Dirty Black Bag.” Anytime, AMC+ A plucky teen named “Theodosia” tries to stop a secret society’s sinister scheme in this new kid-friendly fantasy series. Anytime, HBO Max The remaining contestants find out which Joe’s got bank and which Joe’s got bupkis in the season finale of “Joe Millionaire: For Richer or Poorer.” 8 p.m. Fox “Flip or Flop Nashville’s” Page Turner turns a page with her new home renovation series “Fix My Flip.” 9 p.m. HGTV FRIDAY Ryan Reynolds drops in from the future in Shawn Levy’s 2022 time-travel adventure “The Adam Project.” Mark Ruffalo and Jennifer Garner also star. Anytime, Netflix A senior citizen (Samuel L. Jackson) takes a trip down foggy memory lane in the limited series “The Last Days of Ptolemy Grey” based on the Walter Mosley novel. Anytime, Apple TV+ A psychic medium helps everyday folks connect with the dearly departed in the new reality series “Life After Death With Tyler Henry.” Anytime, Netflix Everyone’s favorite beagle is back in a second season of “The Snoopy Show.” Anytime, Apple TV+ A teen girl transforms into a giant red panda at the absolute worst moments in Pixar’s 2022 animated comedy “Turning Red.” Anytime, Disney+ Robbie Amell is still living his best afterlife in Season 2 of the futuristic sitcom “Upload.” Anytime, Amazon Prime The reboots of “Charmed” and “Dynasty” return for their fourth and fifth seasons, respectively. 8 and 9 p.m. The CW Raven-Symoné is back for a fifth season of her “That’s So Raven” spinoff “Raven’s Home.” 8 p.m. Disney Channel  “Clifford the Big Red Dog” is a whole lot of canine in this family friendly 2021 live-action/animated comedy based on the children’s books. 8 p.m. Epix SATURDAY A single gal is “Feeling Butterflies” after she meets a hunky single dad in this new TV movie. 8 p.m. Hallmark Channel Star-crossed lovers (Ansel Elgort, Rachel Zegler) meet in 1950s New York in Steven Spielberg’s exhilarating 2021 update of the Leonard Bernstein musical “West Side Story.” 8 p.m. HBO They tried to make her go to rehab in the new fact-based TV movie “Cruel Instruction.” With Camryn Manheim. 8 p.m. Lifetime “The Batman’s” Zoë Kravitz hosts and Rosalía performs on a new “Saturday Night Live.” 8:29 and 11:29 p.m. NBC  The prime-time TV grid is on hiatus in print. You can find more TV coverage at: latimes.com/whats-on-tv.    