Come after them if you want, but the Chatsworth High volleyball team is clearly No. 1 in the City Section and is prepared to take on any and all challengers. The Chancellors won the City Open Division last season and are off to a 5-0 start in West Valley League play after a 25-16, 25-20, 25-16 sweep of El Camino Real on Wednesday. Coach Sina Aghassy relies on a veteran team with lots of talent. CJ Blankenship, a 6-foot-4 senior, was impressive against El Camino Real with his serves and ability to finish passes from setter Danny Catalan. Blake Pohevitz, a 6-4 junior transfer from Cleveland, is aggressive above the net, and then there’s 6-7 basketball player Jamaal Unuakhalu, who’s both entertaining and passionate in his ability to leap and dominate. It’s going to take quite a team performance to deny the Chancellors a second straight Open Division championship. Blankenship had 14 kills on Wednesday and Pohevitz added eight kills, eight digs and four blocks. Sherman Oaks Notre Dame 6, St. Francis 1: Jack Gurevitch finished with three hits and Cole Clark struck out 10 to help Notre Dame give coach Tom Dill his 500th career victory. JSerra 3, Servite 1: Andrew Lamb, Trent Caraway and Jonathan Mendez each had two hits for the Lions. Matthew Champion struck out seven in 5 1/3 innings. Crespi 4, Loyola 2: Freshman Diego Velasquez threw a complete game for the Celts. Chris Arce had two hits. Chaminade 3, Bishop Alemany 2: Greg Rangel went three for three to lead Chaminade. Beckman 3, Irvine 2: Zach Ireland had 12 strikeouts in 6 2/3 innings for Beckman. AJ Roettger got the save. Etiwanda 3, Damien 2: Brady Ebel hit a two-run home run to lead Etiwanda in a Baseline League game.  Cypress 10, Valencia 0: Zach Ocampo threw the shutout and Matthew Morrell contributed three RBIs for Cypress. Mission Viejo 8, Dana Hills 4: Jack Wade and Jack Boucher each finished with three hits for Mission Viejo. Foothill 2, El Dorado 1: A two-run rally in the bottom of the seventh lifted Foothill to victory. Laguna Beach 7, Newport Harbor 0: Three pitchers combined for the shutout. Griffin Naess had two hits and two RBIs. Huntington Beach 2, Edison 1: The Oilers tied the game on a squeeze bunt in the seventh and won it in the eighth on. walk-off hit from Ralph Velazquez. Sylmar 11, Kennedy 0: Frank Garcia threw a five-inning shutout and also had three hits and three RBIs for Sylmar. Juan Martinez also had three hits. Long Beach Millikan 8, Long. Beach Poly 1: Sam DeCarlo had three hits for Millikan, which is 6-0 in the Moore League. Myles Patton struck out 13. Corona 5, Temescal Canyon 4: Josh Springer had the walk-off single for 10-4 Corona. Hart 9, Castaic 4: Caiden Helgeson finished with four hits for Hart. Bishop Amat 12, Gardena Serra 1`: Luke Viola had three hits for Bishop Amat.  El Camino Real 5, Carlsbad 3: Courtney Cohen had two hits, including the game-winning home run in the eighth inning, to lead the Royals in the Michelle Carew tournament. Vista Murrieta 3, Rio Mesa 0: Kennedy DeMott had two RBIs for Vista Murrieta. Orange Lutheran 7, Saugus 2: Brianne Weiss picked up her 10th win of the year, striking out 12. Kiki Estrada, Tessa Jerue, Mya Diaz and Makayla Motis each had two hits. In a later game, Orange Lutheran defeated Vista Murrieta 8-0. Estrada, Jerue and Emi Todoroki each hit a home run. Villa Park 9, Cypress 3: Tiana Poole had three hits and Sydney Somerndike hit a two-run home run to lead unbeaten Villa Park. San Pedro 9, Banning 5: The Pirates won their Marine League opener. Bella Chavez and Madison Fao each had two hits and two RBIs.