Burt Call used to win championships at Santa Ana Mater Dei. Now he has Villa Park’s baseball program surging with a 12-1 record after a 7-5, eight-inning win over Foothill on Friday night. A three-run eighth was key for the Spartans after Foothill scored the tying run in the bottom of the seventh on an RBI single from Austin Overn. Jack Burke had a two-run single. Tyler Gordon finished with three hits and Burke and Geoff McArthur each had two RBIs. Brady Schrank had a home run and double for Foothill. Servite 3, Santa Margarita 2: The Friars completed a three-game Trinity League sweep of previously unbeaten Santa Margarita. Freshman Miles Scott had a two-run single. Chris Grothues and Colin Galvin combined on a two-hitter. JSerra 8, St. John Bosco 1: Andrew Lamb went two for three with three RBIs for the Lions. JJ Hollis threw a complete game with six strikeouts. Mater Dei 3, Orange Lutheran 1: Kalani Santos and Jack Kirrer combined to limit the No. 1-ranked Lancers to one run and Ethan Hedges had two hits and two RBIs and Cade O’Hara added two hits and one RBI. Loyola 7, St. Francis 6: Luca DiPaola went three for three and Jackson Shea had a three-run home run for Loyola. Holden Deitch and Jordan Lewallen had three hits apiece for St. Francis. Sherman Oaks Notre Dame 10, Chaminade 1: Jackson Frankovich went three for three with two RBIs and a home run in the Mission League victory. Dean West and Anthony Reveles each had three RBIs for Notre Dame.  Harvard-Westlake 6, Crespi 3: Bryce Rainer, Marty Kaplan and Jacob Galloway each had two hits for the Wolverines. Culver City 2, Mira Costa 1: Alonso Reyes struck out five and walked none in a complete game for Culver City. Corona Santiago 2, Corona 1: The Sharks won two of three from Corona with more outstanding pitching. Oaks Christian 4, Newbury Park 1: Freshman Ty Hanley threw a complete game, helping the Lions improve to 3-0 in the Marmonte League. He struck out four and walked none. Elijah Clayton had two hits and two RBIs. Trabuco Hills 9, Aliso Niguel 1: Will Burns finished with three hits and two RBIs. Corona del Mar 4, Laguna Beach 1: Jack Salmon and Van Sidebotham each hit home runs for Corona del Mar. Huntington Beach 4, Fountain Valley 2: Brian Trujillo contributed two hits and three RBIs.  Agoura 5, Westlake 0: Jameson Johnstone threw the shutout. Hart 10, Saugus 6: Matt Quintanar and Reagan Meyer contributed three hits each. Birmingham 8, Moorpark 6: The Patriots improved to 10-3. Gavin Taylor went four for four with three RBIs. Yucaipa 15, Redlands East Valley 6: Jacob Reimer went four for four with three home runs and six RBIs. He’s committed to Washington.  Orange Lutheran 4, JSerra 0: Brianne Weiss struck out nine and walked one while throwing a four-hitter for the Lancers. Tessa Jerue homered for Orange Lutheran. Emi Todoroki had three hits. Villa Park 3, Chino Hills 1: Sydney Somerndike struck out seven, walked none and threw a four-hitter for the top-ranked Spartans.