President Biden is commemorating Transgender Day of Visibility on Thursday by celebrating prominent trans Americans and advocating against what his administration terms “dangerous anti-transgender legislative attacks” that have passed in statehouses across the country. Biden is expected to announce new measures aimed at making the federal government more inclusive for transgender people, including a new “X” gender marker on U.S. passport applications beginning April 11 and new Transportation Security Administration scanners that are gender-neutral. The Biden administration is working to expand the availability of the X gender marker to airlines and federal travel programs and will make it easier for trans people to change their gender information in Social Security Administration records. Visitors to the White House will soon also be able to select an X marker option in the White House Worker and Visitor Entry System, which is used to conduct screening background checks for visitors to the executive mansion. At airports, there will be changes to screening scanners as well as the use of an X for travelers going through the TSA’s PreCheck process who do not identify as male or female. TSA officers will receive new instructions on screening intended to make procedures less invasive. The TSA will work with airlines to promote the acceptance of the X gender marker. “Transgender Americans continue to face discrimination, harassment, and barriers to opportunity,” Biden wrote in a proclamation marking the day. “In the past year, hundreds of anti-transgender bills in States were proposed across America, most of them targeting transgender kids. The onslaught has continued this year. These bills are wrong.” Biden also planned to release a video message to transgender Americans on Thursday.  “Jeopardy!” champion Amy Schneider, the first out trans winner on the quiz show, will visit the White House on Thursday to meet with Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff. Emhoff, along with Adm. Rachel Levine, the assistant secretary for health at the Department of Health and Human Services, will also host a conversation with transgender kids and their parents at the White House. In Florida, Education Secretary Miguel Cardona will meet with LGBTQ students in the wake of the state’s new law that bars instruction on sexual orientation and gender identity in kindergarten through the third grade. Republicans argue that parents, not teachers, should broach these subjects with children. Democrats have said the law demonizes LGBTQ people by excluding them from classroom lessons. “Their conversation will focus on the impacts of Florida’s so-called Don’t Say Gay bill, students’ experiences at school and, in particular, support for LGBTQI+ student mental health and well-being,” the White House said. The Department of Health and Human Services, the White House said, will also be the first agency to fly a trans pride flag.