The Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, America’s preeminent music festival and the de facto start of the summer concert season, is finally back this weekend after two years of COVID-19 pandemic delays, safety policy changes and months of headliner tumult. Here’s everything you need to know about the festival, whether you’re attending or just live-streaming  sets by the pool. When is Coachella and how do I see it?The festival runs  April 15-17 and again  April 22-24 the the Empire Polo Club in Indio, Calif.. Tickets to both weekends are currently sold out, though there is an official waitlist and ticket exchange. Passes are currently selling for around $300 and up on re-sellers like StubHub. If you can’t find passes or accommodations, or if you’re still on the fence about joining 125,000 concertgoers at a festival, many sets will livestream on YouTube. Gates open daily at noon. Who is headlining?Harry Styles, Billie Eilish and a pairing of EDM stars Swedish House Mafia and the Weeknd are headlining the three nights. Swedish House Mafia and the Weeknd replace Kanye West, who pulled out just weeks before the show (previous previous headliner Travis Scott was dropped  after the Astroworld tragedy in Houston last year). Planned 2020 headliner Frank Ocean will return in 2023. Other notable performers include Doja Cat, Phoebe Bridgers, Grupo Firme, Megan Thee Stallion and Anitta. If you need a last-minute incentive to show up early, former headliners Arcade Fire will play the much-smaller Mojave Tent at 6:45 p.m. on Friday, April 15. Set times for the weekend were posted online  Thursday.  What’s different this year?Mainly, it’s what’s not different this year. After a chaotic two years of rescheduling, COVID-19 policy updates and lineup swaps, Coachella will be more or less as it was in 2019. The festival (which is almost entirely outdoors) will not require any COVID-19 mitigation measures such as vaccine cards, masks or distancing. The prices for hotel rooms and home rentals are astronomical these weekends, so know that the usual array of camping options  is back on as well. How do I get there?In addition to the free parking lots and ride-share services, there’s an array of shuttle passes and bus options both to and from L.A. and getting around the fest locally. I’m feeling under the weather. Is there on-site COVID-19 testing?Yes, at the Camping Hub and the Indian Wells Tennis Garden. What’s good to eat on-site?As always, the food and drink options are exemplary. L.A. standouts like Bridgetown Roti, Ronan, Tacos 1986, Bar Flores and Best Friend will be serving, as will pricier sit-down options from chefs like Burt Bakman, Minh Phan and Theresa Montano. I forgot how stressful big festivals can be. Anywhere I can go to take a break or get help?Coachella’s Every One is a mental health and anti-harassment service  you can use to report misconduct, get on-site counseling or just take a breather from the carnival.