Former President Obama will return to the White House Tuesday for the first time since leaving office to celebrate the 12th anniversary of his landmark healthcare law, which President Biden is planning to bolster with two new actions. Biden, who as Obama’s vice president famously celebrated the Affordable Care Act’s passage as a “big f—ing deal,” will sign an executive order to make healthcare more accessible and affordable, according to a senior administration official. Meanwhile, the Treasury Department will introduce a regulation designed to reduce premiums required to cover spouses and dependents on employer-based plans, closing a loophole in the law. If the rule is finalized, about 5 million families who are paying more than 10% of their income for employer-based healthcare or who are unable to afford quality coverage would be eligible for subsidies to reduce those costs. “We think it’s the most significant administrative action to improve implementation of the ACA that we’ve taken since the law was implemented,” said the senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to outline the proposals for reporters. The executive order Biden plans to sign will direct federal agencies to take steps to improve access to healthcare plans. The administration believes such actions will make it easier for consumers to obtain and retain coverage. Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said the Affordable Care Act’s anniversary was the perfect time for Obama to return to the White House and that he and Biden would take stock of how the law has expanded access to healthcare over the last 12 years. Obama left office in January 2017, last departing the White House residence along with then-President-elect Trump and their wives en route to the Capitol, where he lifted off in Marine One just before his predecessor’s inauguration.  Obama campaigned for Biden and other Democrats in 2020. But with the exception of the release of the first volume of his memoir last year he has kept a relatively low profile since his former vice president took office in January 2021. With Biden’s broader domestic agenda stalled and November’s midterm elections looming on the horizon, the summoning of Obama — and the White House’s emphasis on an existing law — underscored the degree to which Democrats are working to remind voters, many frustrated by rising costs and the pandemic’s persistence, about what they have already accomplished. Biden, Psaki said, plans to underscore the efforts his administration has taken in its first 14 months to increase access to healthcare.  He will highlight how a measure in last year’s American Rescue Plan enabled 14.5 million Americans to sign up for coverage. Additionally, enhanced subsidies included in the $1.9-trillion coronavirus relief package ensured 9 million Americans were able to lower their monthly premiums by at least $50 per person, according to the White House. Biden and the former president also plan to have lunch, as they did on a weekly basis during Obama’s presidency. “They continue to talk regularly,” Psaki said. “They are real friends, not just Washington friends, and so I’m sure they will talk about events in the world as well as their families and personal lives.”