Schools reopened Monday in the Sacramento City Unified School District after teachers and other workers reached tentative agreements that increase pay and dole out one-time stipends, ending a crippling strike that has closed schools for eight days. School district officials announced the tentative agreement Sunday night with the Sacramento City Teachers Assn. and SEIU Local 1021, a union representing bus drivers, instructional aides and custodians, and other classified staff. The teachers strike in California’s capital that began March 23 — affecting 43,000 students and 76 schools — was driven by what teachers and other district classified staff say were severe staffing shortages, heavy workloads and concerns over pay. The strike came as districts nationwide face similar crises exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, including staffing shortages, exhaustion and the pressures of academic recovery. The tentative agreement includes a 4% cost-of-living-increase pay adjustment, thousands of dollars in one-time stipends and improved dental and vision healthcare plans — changes that address the drivers of a classified staff shortage, the labor unions said. The agreement with the teachers union also includes a cost-of-living pay adjustment, one-time stipends, additional paid COVID-19 sick days and increased pay for substitute teachers and three additional days of professional development, among other stipulations. Leading up to the strike, the district had hundreds of vacancies for educators and classified staff, putting a strain on employees, union leaders said. Karla Faucett, president of SEIU Local 1021, said there are about 400 vacancies among classified staff that has been exacerbated by static pay and a lack of benefits for many employees. Oftentimes, they work other jobs to stay afloat or leave to another district offering competitive pay. The agreement helps those who are among the lowest paid in the district, but also sets the groundwork for incentives for workers to stay and better positions the district to recruit more workers, Faucett said. The district agreed to a $2,000 retention bonus for bus drivers next school year, as well as signing bonuses for new bus drivers. Another example includes improved vision cost coverage — now SEIU members can get the cost of new glasses frames covered every year instead of every other year, Faucett said. “There’s going to be a huge healing process,” she said. “We have a long way to go.” For educators, the strike came at a dire time — already, more than 100 teachers in the district were planning to retire or resign next school year, a higher amount than usual, said David Fisher, president of the Sacramento Teachers Assn. They were feeling the squeeze of the teacher shortage facing districts across the state and faced the possibility of as many as 400 teacher vacancies next school year. Before schools were shuttered for eight days during the strike, Fisher said that on average, thousands of students were going without regular instructors on a daily basis due to the lack of enough substitute teachers or staff.  “The doors were open but it wasn’t like what you would consider school,” Fisher said. In its agreement, increased pay for substitute teachers and providing extra compensation to teachers working longer hours will help keep them from leaving, Fisher said. “‘Stop the bleeding’ was our first goal,” he said. While the teacher union’s agreement with the district will not “magically solve” the shortages, teachers will have more incentive to stay. Instead of cuts to health plans, the agreement reached between the district and SCTA means they will work together to find savings that don’t drive teachers away, Fisher said. The unions received support from the community, with some parents holding a sit-in outside the superintendent’s office during the strike to urge the superintendent and district into bargaining. Sacramento City Unified Supt. Jorge A. Aguilar said in a statement that the agreements with the labor unions “demonstrate how highly we value our employees” returning to school on Monday. Aguilar also acknowledged the mass shooting over the weekend in Sacramento in a nightclub district where six people died and 12 others were wounded. “Schools serve as safe havens and centers of emotional and mental health support for many students,” Aguilar said. “This tragedy underscores the importance of the return of our students and staff on Monday, and I look forward to welcoming our students back.” The Associated Press contributed to this report.