Northridge Eats There’s a new food hall in San Fernando Valley that focuses entirely on Asian restaurants. Northridge Eats, which opened in March, houses four fast-casual restaurants within a strip mall. Hainan chicken specialist Maxwell Chicken Rice is offering its signature boiled chicken along with fried chicken, garlic noodles and bone broth, while Akafuji Sushi, from Ryota Okumura (formerly Sushi Zo and Katana), serves nigiri, hand rolls and more. Mee Dee Thai Kitchen, which also  has a location in Historic South-Central, sells boba, curries, stir-fried noodles, classic Thai street food and new, inventive spins such as green-curry fried chicken sliders and Tom Yum fries. Regional chain and ramen-ya Kotsu Ramen & Gyoza offers 12-hour-simmered tonkotsu, rice bowls, karaage, vegan gyoza, meat dumplings and seaweed salad. Akafuji Sushi is open  11:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tuesdays to Sundays; Maxwell Chicken Rice is open  11 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily; Mee Dee Thai Kitchen is open  11 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily and  until midnight for delivery; and Kotsu Ramen & Gyoza is open 5 to 9 p.m.  daily. 9346 Corbin Ave., Northridge, northridgeeats.com Nostalgia Bar & Lounge Longtime cannabis chef and consultant Chris Sayegh, founder of the Herbal Chef, has opened a restaurant and bar in Santa Monica that’s all about throwbacks and childhood flavors. At Nostalgia Bar & Lounge, Sayegh and co-chef Jared Ventura aren’t infusing the menu with CBD and THC, as Sayegh has done at pop-ups and dinner events in the past. Instead, they are focusing on comforting American fare (burgers, lobster rolls, fried cauliflower) and grown-up takes on kid classics: peanut butter and jelly cake for dessert, for instance, or a terpene cocktail reminiscent of the fruity, watery last bit of an Otter Pop.  Tabletop games such as Connect 4 and Jenga are available to play indoors as well as the patio with picnic-bench seating. A tangential members-only dinner series, called the Secret Supper Club, is open to applications, with an annual membership fee of $1,000 for private, ticketed meals and events targeted to guests interested in discussing art, food and psychedelics, among other topics. Nostalgia Bar & Lounge is open  3 p.m. to 2 a.m. Wednesdays through Sundays. 1326 Pico Blvd., Santa Monica, nostalgiabarandlounge.com  Hui Tou Xiang The San Gabriel family-run dumpling shop Hui Tou Xiang has expanded to Hollywood, taking over the former Cellar 43 wine bar space. The second location offers the signature hui tou, along with more of the San Gabriel staples: pork-and-leek pancakes, wontons, steamed xiao long bao, noodles, boiled dumplings and appetizers such as marinated tofu skins. The Hollywood location has more seating, a bar and a larger kitchen — the latter offering the space to broaden the menu with a selection of grilled skewers. Beer and wine service is forthcoming, spotlighting local and international drinks that will complement the dumplings. Hui Tou Xiang is open in Hollywood from 11 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. daily. 1643 N. Cahuenga Blvd., Los Angeles, (323) 645-7272, huitouxiang.com  Calaca Mamas Cantina A new Mexican restaurant is headed to Anaheim from sisters Angela and Mariam El Haj, who are planning to pay homage to  Día de los Muertos (Day of the Dead)  in theme and decor. The 200-seat restaurant  is adjacent to Disneyland and will offer indoor dining, a cantina and a patio with a firepit, along with dishes such as chilaquiles, achiote-marinated mahi mahi and chicken tinga tacos. Calaca Mamas Cantina is  set to open May 27. 1550 S. Harbor Blvd., Anaheim, calacamamas.com Gilles Cabaret Gilles Cabaret, a dinner and a show, has launched within West Hollywood restaurant  La Bohème. The  event runs  Saturdays  from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Entry is free, but each table requires a $50 minimum per person (with no minimum at  bar seats, and a $100 minimum for premium tables).  The night out features  performances from musicians, DJs, dancers and aerialists,  while menu options  include kale salads, oysters and sushi, plus cocktails, wine and bottle service. 8400 Santa Monica Blvd., West Hollywood, (917) 690-2523‬ gillescabaret.com