A week ago, Villa Park was the toast of high school baseball in Southern California after winning the Boras Classic. But in a clear sign of the challenges facing teams in the Southern Section Division 1 playoffs, anything can happen on a given day, and on Tuesday, Villa Park was beaten by Foothill 4-2 in a return to Crestview League play. Foothill won the consolation title in the Boras Classic and is now tied for first place with Villa Park at 6-2 with one game to play. Garrett Davidson had three hits and Cameron Kessel threw two innings of shutout relief to get the save. Villa Park moved to No. 1 in this week’s Division 1 coaches rankings, but the loss opens the door for Orange Lutheran to take the No. 1 seed if it can defeat Santa Margarita twice more this week. The Lancers won 13-6 on Tuesday. Tustin 6, Cypress 3: Riley Kelly had two doubles in the upset of Cypress. Servite 7, St. John Bosco 5: The Friars (8-6) continued their drive for a Trinity League playoff spot. Roman Martin had two hits. Alemany 6, Loyola 5: Carson Chavez had two hits and two RBIs for Loyola. Harvard-Westlake 4, Chaminade 3: A four-run sixth helped the Wolverines rally and clinch at least a share of the Mission League championship with one game to play. Avery Thau struck out 11 in six innings. Niko Price hit a three-run home run. Owen Carlson had three hits. St. Francis 4, Crespi 3: Luke Fogarty had two hits and two RBIs for St. Francis. Valencia 4, Hart 1: Tyler Biggs threw a complete game to hand Hart its first loss in Foothill League play. West Ranch 17, Castaic 5: Ty DePerno hit a grand slam and Jake Schwartz had three hits and four RBIs for West Ranch. Redondo Union 3, Mira Costa 1: Tomas Lopez struck out 11 for Redondo Union. Royal 6, Simi Valley 4: Nate Hamburger hit a grand slam to lead Royal. Culver City 2, Santa Monica 0: Tommy Peacock struck out five and walked none in six scoreless innings for Culver City. Trabuco Hills 10, San Juan Hills 4: Joey Gray had three hits and three RBIs to lead Trabuco Hills.  Viewpoint 8, Brentwood 5: Vinny Terraciano had two hits and two RBIs. Warren 8, Downey 3: Aidan Gonzalez had 14 strikeouts in six innings. Moorpark 2, Camarillo 1: Danny Orozco had the walk-off hit for Moorpark. Garden Grove Pacifica 4, Placentia Valencia 0: Johnny Morales threw six shutout innings. Granada Hills 11, El Camino Real 5: Miles Ortiz contributed three hits and Brandon Garfinkel and Drew Gustafson each had two hits to lead Granada Hills. Birmingham 6, Cleveland 1: Daniel Flores struck out nine and walked one for Birmingham. Chatsworth 6, Taft 0:  Jose Ruedas struck out 12 in the shutout for the Chancellors. Capistrano Valley 5, Mission Viejo 3: The Cougars won the South Coast League title. JSerra 3, Mater Dei 2: Eva Hurtado scattered eight hits to pick up the win. Alyssa Grajeda had two doubles and a triple for JSerra.