Britney Spears is pregnant with her third child, the pop musician announced Monday. In a lengthy and enthusiastic Instagram caption, Spears joked that she and her fiancé, Sam Asghari, initially thought she might be “food pregnant” after noticing some weight gain in her stomach. “So I got a pregnancy test … and uhhhhh well … I am having a baby,” Spears posted, along with a baby emoji. “4 days later I got a little more food pregnant ... It’s growing !!! If 2 are in there … I might just [lose] it ... obviously won’t be going out as much due to the paps getting their money ... shot of me ... like they unfortunately already have.”  The “Lucky” hitmaker is expecting her first child with Asghari after previously welcoming two boys — Sean Preston Federline, 16, and Jayden James Federline, 15 — with ex-husband Kevin Federline. Spears, 40, and Asghari, 28, got engaged in September 2021 after dating for nearly five years. The "...Baby One More Time” hitmaker’s pregnancy reveal comes months after her controversial 13-year conservatorship was finally terminated. “It’s hard because when I was pregnant I had perinatal depression,” the singer continued in her post. “I have to say it is absolutely horrible … women didn’t talk about it back then … some people considered it dangerous if a woman complained like that with a baby inside her.  “But now women talk about it everyday … thank Jesus we don’t have to keep that pain a reserved proper secret … This time I will be doing yoga ... every day !!! Spreading lots of joy and love.” Last summer, Spears expressed a desire to conceive another child while making a passionate plea to a Los Angeles judge to end what she called an “abusive” conservatorship. During her testimony, the Grammy winner accused her conservators of forcing her to use an intrauterine device that prevented her from having more children. “I was told ... I’m not able to get married or have a baby,” she told the judge. “I wanted to take the IUD out, so I could start trying to have another baby, but ... they don’t want me to have ... any more children. So basically, this conservatorship is doing me way more harm than good. I deserve to have a life.”