First, Elon Musk bought a huge stake in Twitter. Then he announced he’d be joining the Twitter board of directors. Then he said he wouldn’t take a board seat after all. Now, the mega-billionaire is bidding to buy the entire company and take full control. His offer: $43 billion for the 90% that he doesn’t already own. That price of $54.20 per share represents a sweet 18% premium over Wednesday night’s closing price of $45.85. So far, Wall Street’s not buying it. After an initial upward bump Thursday morning, the stock settled into trading that sometimes dipped below $45. It remains far below its 52-week high of $73. Stock traders might believe that the Twitter board won’t agree to the price, which Musk made clear is non-negotiable and a one-time-only offer. Skepticism about any deal is warranted. Musk settled fraud charges with federal  financial regulators in 2018 after he used Twitter to announce that  he had a deal to take his electric car company Tesla  private when he did not. He hasn’t spelled out details on financing to purchase Twitter, but Musk’s personal wealth is estimated at around $265 billion. Musk is bidding for Twitter under a banner of free speech. “I invested in Twitter as I believe in its potential to be the platform for free speech around the globe, and I believe free speech is a societal imperative for a functioning democracy,” Musk said in a government filing announcing his offer. “However, since making my investment I now realize the company will neither thrive nor serve this societal imperative in its current form. Twitter needs to be transformed as a private company.” Musk has described himself as a “free speech absolutist,” although exactly what he means by the term is unclear. His Twitter-related troubles are ongoing. He’s trying to persuade a federal judge to throw out  the Twitter fraud settlement, which cost him $20 million in fines and included a three-year ban on his serving as  chair of Tesla’s board.  He’s said he doesn’t think Twitter is living up to free speech principles — an opinion shared by followers of Donald Trump and a number of other right-wing political figures who’ve had their accounts suspended for violating Twitter content rules. He did offer some ideas through his Twitter account on how he might reform the company. He suggested removing the “w” from the company’s name. He proposed the company transform its downtown San Francisco headquarters into a homeless shelter, and dropping advertisements with a subscription model. He has since deleted the tweets containing those suggestions. Musk’s 81 million Twitter followers make him one of the most popular figures on the platform, rivaling pop stars like Ariana Grande and Lady Gaga. But his prolific tweeting has sometimes gotten him into trouble with the Securities and Exchange Commission  and others. He’s said on the television show “60 Minutes” that he doesn’t respect the Securities and Exchange Commission and directed an obscene insult at the agency in a tweet. Musk was late filing SEC documents about his stake in Twitter and is now facing a shareholder lawsuit over the lapse. But  the SEC hasn’t said anything about it. The Associated Press was used in compiling this story.              