Police found an unoccupied U-Haul van in Brooklyn matching the description and license plate of the vehicle being sought in connection with Tuesday’s shooting on a rush-hour subway train, a law enforcement official said. Police were closing off a street about four miles from the shooting scene and clearing nearby businesses while awaiting a bomb squad and the highly specialized emergency services unit. The official wasn’t authorized to discuss the investigation publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Officers around the city had been told that if they spotted the U-Haul, they should stop it and detain all occupants immediately. A gunman in a construction vest donned a gas mask, set off a smoke canister on a rush-hour subway train and shot at least 10 people Tuesday morning, authorities said. The shooter was at large and described as dangerous after leaving wounded commuters bleeding on a Brooklyn platform while others ran screaming. Five people were in critical condition but expected to survive. At least 16 were injured in the attack that began on a subway train that pulled into the 36th Street station in the borough’s Sunset Park neighborhood.  Investigators found a credit card at the scene of Tuesday’s shooting that led them to identify a person of interest, one of the law enforcement officials said, adding that the card was used to rent the U-Haul van that police located in Brooklyn. There was no known link to terrorism, NYPD Commissioner Keechant Sewell said.. Authorities had given officers a photo they believed to depict the gunman and the Arizona license plate of a U-Haul truck to look out for, two law enforcement officials said.  Investigators recovered a handgun at the scene, along with multiple smoke devices and other items they are analyzing, said the officials, who were not authorized to discuss the investigation and spoke on condition of anonymity. They said the suspect is believed to have had at least two extended magazines. Investigators believe the weapon jammed, preventing the suspect from continuing to fire, the officials said. The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives has completed an urgent trace to identify the gun’s manufacturer, seller and initial owner. The attack unnerved a city on guard about a rise in gun violence and the ever-present threat of terrorism. It left some New Yorkers jittery about riding the nation’s busiest subway system and prompted officials to increase policing at transportation hubs from Philadelphia to Connecticut. The security cameras in the station apparently malfunctioned, Mayor Eric Adams said, which the law enforcement officials said hampered investigators’ quest for surveillance video. One rider’s video, shot through a closed door between subway cars, shows a person in a hooded sweatshirt raising an arm and pointing at something — possibly the door to a conductor’s booth — as five bangs sound. In another video, smoke and people pour out of a subway car and wails erupt as passengers run for an exit while a few others limp off the train. One falls to the platform, and a person shouts, “Someone call 911!” Other video and photos from the scene show people tending to bloodied passengers lying on the platform, some amid what appear to be small puddles of blood, and another person on the floor of a subway car. Juliana Fonda, a broadcast engineer at WNYC-FM, told its news site Gothamist she was riding the train when passengers from the car behind hers started banging on the door between them. “There was a lot of loud pops, and there was smoke in the other car,” she said. “And people were trying to get in and they couldn’t, they were pounding on the door to get into our car.” As police searched for the shooter, Gov. Kathy Hochul warned New Yorkers to be vigilant. “This individual is still on the loose. This person is dangerous,” she said at a news conference. “This is an active shooter situation right now in the city of New York.”    “My subway door opened into calamity. It was smoke and blood and people screaming,” eyewitness Sam Carcamo told radio station 1010 WINS, saying he saw a gigantic billow of smoke pouring out of the train once the door opened. Officials said at least 16  were injured in some way in the attack at the 36th Street station in the borough’s Sunset Park neighborhood. Fire personnel responding to reports of smoke at the 36th Street station in the Sunset Park neighborhood found multiple people shot and undetonated devices, a New York City Fire Department spokesperson said. According to multiple law enforcement sources, preliminary information indicated a suspect fled wearing a construction vest and a gas mask. After people streamed out of the train, quick-thinking transit workers ushered passengers to another train across the platform for safety, system chief Janno Lieber noted. High school student John Butsikaris was riding the other train when he saw a conductor urging everyone to get in. He assumed the cause was mundane until he heard screams for medical attention and his train was evacuated. “I’m definitely shook,” the 15-year-old told the Associated Press. “Even though I didn’t see what happened, I’m still scared, because it was like a few feet away from me, what happened.” No transit workers were  hurt, according to their union. Besides gunshot wounds, the injured riders were treated for smoke inhalation, shrapnel and panic. President  Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and U.S. Atty. Gen. Merrick Garland were briefed on the incident. New York Mayor Eric Adams, who is isolating following a positive COVID-19 test on Sunday, said in a video statement that the city “will not allow New Yorkers to be terrorized, even by a single individual.”   The incident happened on a subway line that runs through south Brooklyn  about a 15-minute train ride to Manhattan. Local schools, including Sunset Park High School across the street from the station, were locked down. Danny Mastrogiorgio of Brooklyn had just dropped his son off at school when he saw a crush of passengers, some of them wounded, running up the subway stairway at the nearby 25th Street station in panic. At least two had visible leg injuries, he said. “It was insane,” he told the AP. “No one knew exactly what was going on.” Allan Lee was running his business, Cafe Nube, when a half-dozen police cars and fire vehicles suddenly converged on the block that contains the 36th Street station. “Then they started ushering people that were on the block to the adjacent block and then closed off the subway entrance” near the cafe’s door, he told the AP.  New York City has faced a spate of shootings and high-profile incidents in recent months, including on the city’s subways.  In January,  a woman was pushed to her death in front of a train by a stranger. Adams, a Democrat a little over 100 days into his term, has made cracking down on crime — especially on the subways — a focus of his early administration, pledging to send more police officers into stations and platforms for regular patrols. It wasn’t immediately clear whether officers had already been inside the station when Tuesday’s shootings occurred. “We say: No more. No more mass shootings. No more disrupting lives. No more creating heartbreak for people just trying to live their lives as normal New Yorkers,” Hochul, also a Democrat, said. “It has to end.”