1. Time Is a Mother by Ocean Vuong (Penguin: $24)  A collection of poems from the author of “On Earth We’re Briefly Gorgeous.” 2. Sea of Tranquility by Emily St. John Mandel (Knopf: $25)  A science fiction tale spanning centuries from the author of “Station Eleven” and “The Glass Hotel.” 3. The Candy House by Jennifer Egan (Scribner: $28)  A tech CEO develops a technology to externally store, recall and share the brain’s memories. 4. The Paris Apartment by Lucy Foley (Morrow: $29) A woman hoping to stay at her brother’s flat gets tangled in a mystery when he goes missing. 5. Young Mungo by Douglas Stuart (Grove: $27)  Two young men, a Protestant and a Catholic, become friends growing up in Glasgow public housing, then fall in love. 6. The Diamond Eye by Kate Quinn (Morrow: $28) A librarian in World War II Ukraine takes up arms against the Nazis and becomes a hero. 7. Call Us What We Carry by Amanda Gorman (Viking: $25) A collection of poems from the youngest presidential inaugural poet in U.S. history. 8. One Italian Summer by Rebecca Serle (Atria: $27) Shortly after her mother’s death a woman goes on the vacation she and her mother had planned to take together.  9. The Lincoln Highway by Amor Towles (Viking: $30) In Nebraska in 1954, a juvenile parolee inadvertently helps two convicts escape and gets mixed up in their plans. 10. The Match by Harlan Coben (Grand Central: $29) A man searching for the reasons why he was abandoned gets a clue to his father’s identity from a DNA database. 1. The Storyteller by Dave Grohl (Dey Street: $30) A memoir from the frontman of the Foo Fighters. 2. Crying in H Mart by Michelle Zauner (Knopf: $27) A memoir from the Korean-born singer-songwriter of the band Japanese Breakfast. 3. Atlas of the Heart by Brené Brown (Random House: $30) A look at human emotions and experiences and the language we use to understand them. 4. Bittersweet by Susan Cain (Crown: $28)  The self-help author uses research, storytelling and memoir to explore embracing the bittersweetness of life. 5. The Nineties by Chuck Klosterman (Penguin: $28) The journalist explores the political, social and technological environment of the tumultuous decade. 6. How Do I Un-Remember This? by Danny Pellegrino (Sourcebooks: $26)  The comedian-podcaster shares painful and embarrassing memories from his life. 7. You Sound Like a White Girl by Julissa Arce (Flatiron: $28)  The immigrant from Mexico makes the case against assimilating into American culture. 8. Ten Steps to Nanette by Hannah Gadsby (Ballantine : $28) A memoir from the Australian comedian and LGBTQ activist who created the Peabody-winning “Nanette.” 9. Sicker in the Head by Judd Apatow (Random House: $29) A sequel, of sorts, to “Sick in the Head,” featuring interviews, stories and conversations with prominent comedians. 10. All About Me! by Mel Brooks (Ballantine: $30) The comedy legend looks back at his life in show business.  1. The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid (Washington Square: $17) 2. Klara and the Sun by Kazuo Ishiguro (Vintage: $17) 3. On Earth We’re Briefly Gorgeous by Ocean Vuong (Penguin: $17) 4. The Guncle by Steven Rowley (Putnam: $17) 5. People We Meet on Vacation by Emily Henry (Berkley: $16) 6. It Ends With Us by Colleen Hoover (Atria: $17) 7. My Year of Rest and Relaxation by Ottessa Moshfegh (Penguin: $17) 8. The Thursday Murder Club by Richard Osman (Penguin: $17) 9. Mexican Gothic by Silvia Moreno-Garcia (Del Rey: $17) 10. The House in the Cerulean Sea by TJ Klune (Tor: $19) 1. The White Album by Joan Didion (FSG: $17) 2. Slouching Towards Bethlehem by Joan Didion (FSG: $17) 3. Braiding Sweetgrass by Robin Wall Kimmerer (Milkweed: $20) 4. Educated by Tara Westover (Random House: $19) 5. All About Love by bell hooks (Morrow: $16) 6. How to Love by Thich Nhat Hanh, Jason DeAntonis (Illus.) (Parallax: $10) 7. Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari (Harper: $25) 8. Rising Strong by Brené Brown (Random House: $18) 9. 50 Hikes in Orange County by Karin Klein (Countryman: $20) 10. Between Two Kingdoms by Suleika Jaouad (Random House: $18)