The two males killed in a shooting in Willowbrook have been identified as Devin Pugh, 17, of Downey and Timothy Ford Sr., 40, of Moreno Valley. At 3 p.m. Sunday, Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputies responded to the 12200 block of Blakley Avenue, where they found six people shot in the tree-lined neighborhood of single-family homes just southwest of Martin Luther King Jr. Community Hospital. Pugh and Ford, both hit in the chest, were pronounced dead at the scene. Four other men — ages 21, 44, 46 and 58 — were taken to a hospital with gunshot wounds. Their condition wasn’t clear Monday afternoon. A seventh victim, a 51-year-old woman, drove herself to a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. Detectives believe that the shooters pulled up in two cars and stepped out before opening fire with multiple weapons, said Lt. Vincent Ursini. At least one of the suspects was wielding an assault rifle. Investigators at this point have seen no indication that the victims returned fire. The shooting was possibly motivated by gang dynamics, Ursini said, and homicide detectives were working Monday with their counterparts in the L.A. County Sheriff’s Department’s gang unit to determine a motive. They were also interviewing witnesses in the neighborhood and looking for surveillance footage that may have captured the shooting, the lieutenant said. Speaking at the scene of the shooting on Sunday night, Laquincy Zimmerman told The Times that her 21-year-old son was in surgery after being shot in the legs. Zimmerman said she was in church when she got a call Sunday afternoon that there had been a shooting. She got there before the police, she said. “The 17-year-old was lying dead right there in the street,” Zimmerman said, pointing up  Blakley Avenue past yellow police tape toward 122nd Place. “My house was torn up. Shattered glass, everything.”  Zimmerman said her neighbor’s Nest camera showed the attackers opening fire from two SUVs. “I’ve seen shooting here before,” Zimmerman said. “But what were they thinking shooting like that here today? Our kids were outside playing and everything.” Times staff writer Connor Sheets contributed to this report.