Three car-to-car shootings on L.A. County freeways in less than 18 hours left a man dead, a woman seriously injured and two other people with minor injuries, the California Highway Patrol said Tuesday. The first incident was reported around 12:30 a.m. on the 710 Freeway in Cudahy. The unidentified man was driving northbound near Firestone Boulevard when a person driving a black sedan in the same direction opened fire, the CHP said. The stricken driver pulled over to the center median and called 911. He was rushed to St. Francis Medical Center, where he later died, according to CHP Officer Marco Lizarraga. The shooter was last seen exiting the freeway at Florence Avenue, according to authorities, who had no further description of the suspect. Investigators closed the freeway for several hours Tuesday morning while they searched for evidence. The name of the victim has not been released pending notification of next of kin. The second shooting was reported just before 10:30 a.m. on the 91 Freeway in Carson. A dark-colored sedan pulled alongside a Kia driving eastbound at Main Street, CHP officials said, and someone in the sedan fired multiple shots at the Kia before fleeing the scene. The Kia’s female passenger was struck by gunfire and taken to a hospital in serious but stable condition, CHP officials said.  The eastbound 91 was closed for 90 minutes due to the investigation. The third shooting occurred around 5:41 p.m. on the northbound 710 at the 105 Freeway, CHP officials said. Officers responded to a call of shots fired at the location and saw a woman standing outside a gray Mazda sedan along the right shoulder, officials said. A preliminary investigation revealed that a person driving an SUV of unknown make and model drove alongside the Mazda’s passenger side and fired an unknown number of shots before fleeing, officials said. The Mazda’s driver pulled over to the right shoulder and called 911. “The male passenger was struck by shattered glass and transported to Long Beach Memorial Hospital with minor injuries,” CHP officials said. “A juvenile passenger was also transported to Long Beach Memorial Hospital with minor injuries. Neither party was struck by gunfire.” The Mazda’s driver wasn’t injured and stayed at the scene to speak with officers, officials said.     It was unclear Tuesday evening whether the three incidents were related. Anyone with information is asked to call the California Highway Patrol at (323) 980-4600.