It was the fifth inning. The first batter hit a home run to tie the score. Two of the next three batters reached base. Shohei Ohtani was done for the day — or was he? The Angels wanted to replace Ohtani on the mound, but they did not want to lose his bat in their lineup, not when he was due up fourth in the bottom of the inning. However, he had started the game as the pitcher, not the designated hitter. In order to keep him in the game for his next at-bat, the Angels had to move him to right field. The Angels went out in order in the bottom of the inning, so they had to risk playing Ohtani in right field for one more inning. He then batted, dropped a bunt single, was thrown out trying to steal second base, and finally left the game.  In the life of Ohtani, that was one day last May. No more of that nonsense this season. Under a new rule nicknamed the “Shohei Ohtani rule,” a team can list a player as the pitcher and designated hitter on the days he starts, then remove him in one role but not the other. When the Angels go to the bullpen, Ohtani would be out of the game as the pitcher but would remain in the game as the designated hitter. This is a fan-friendly rule, because who doesn’t want to see Ohtani bat more often? But it also restores a measure of fairness: Why should Ohtani and the Angels be penalized because of his unique skill? Why should they be forced to limit how long he can hit because of how long he can pitch?  The rule is not limited to Ohtani, of course, even if he figures to be the primary beneficiary. But let’s say the Angels are facing a team using a right-handed opener. The Angels’ pitchers this season include Michael Lorenzen, whose career OPS (on-base plus slugging) against right-handers is .767. The league average last season was .725. So, in theory, the Angels could start Lorenzen, let him bat against the opener, then keep him in the game as a pitcher while removing him as the DH. What else is new in 2022? Here’s what:  The changes: If a team wishes to demote a player already optioned five times that season, every other team must first get the chance to claim him on waivers. (For this season, options prior to May 2 do not count against the new limit.) And, starting May 2, teams are limited to 13 pitchers on their active roster, with the minimum stay for a pitcher on the injured list rising from 10 days to 15. 