Yordan Alvarez homered twice with four RBIs in his return after missing five games because of COVID-19 health and safety protocols to lead the Houston Astros to an 8-3 win over the Angels in their home opener Monday night. But the Astros lost Jose Altuve in the eighth inning with a strained left hamstring in the eighth inning. He fell to the ground after legging out an infield single. Max Stassi hit a solo homer for the Angels, who were without star Mike Trout. He sat with a bruised left hand after being hit by a pitch Sunday. Angels team trainer Mike Frostad said an MRI on Monday was negative for a fracture and that Trout has a bruise. Frostad added Trout’s return to the lineup will depend on pain tolerance.  Manager Joe Maddon said Trout is considered day to day with the injury but wasn’t sure if he’d return during this series with the Astros, which ends Wednesday. Trout said Sunday that when he first was hit, he thought he broke the hand. He had trouble seeing Spencer Patton’s pitch in the shadows at Texas and lowered his hands into the path of the ball to protect his midsection. Alvarez, who had three hits, put the Astros up early with his 417-foot shot to the second deck off Michael Lorenzen (1-1) in the first inning, scoring Michael Brantley. The Angels tied it in the second before Houston added two runs in the fourth inning to regain the lead. “It was unbelievable,“ Astros manager Dusty Baker said. “He came back better than when he left. He was struggling a little bit when he left. He told me he was ready, so when says he’s ready I guess I’ve got to take his word, especially after tonight’s performance.“  “I’m actually feeling better than what I was expecting but we’ll see tomorrow,“ Altuve said about his injury, adding that he would likely have tests done Tuesday. The Angels tied it in the second before Houston added two runs in the fourth inning to regain the lead. Alex Bregman doubled with no outs in the seventh, and then Alvarez connected again — a homer to the bullpen in right center to push the lead to 7-3. Alvarez has three home runs so far this season, and it was his ninth multihomer game of his career. Houston starter Luis Garcia (1-0) allowed four hits and three runs with seven strikeouts in 5 2/3 innings for the win. Phil Maton, Rafael Montero and Hector Neris combined to shut out the Angels the rest of the way. Lorenzen took the loss after allowing four hits and four runs with two walks in 3 1/3 innings. “He was just off a little bit,“ Maddon said. “His changeup wasn’t as effective. The breaking ball overall wasn’t as effective. He still had decent numbers on the pitches, but wasn’t putting them where he had the last time.“ Brantley singled with one out in the first before Alvarez sent a slider into the right-field stands with two outs to make it 2-0.  The Angels tied it up on a two-out double by Tyler Wade in the second inning. Lorenzen’s bases-loaded walk of rookie Jeremy Peña with one out in the fourth put the Astros on top 3-2. Lorenzen then plunked Jose Siri on the hand to score another run and end his night. With two outs in the sixth, Stassi homered to right field to cut the lead to 4-3 and chase Garcia. The Astros had runners at first and third with one out in the sixth when Martin Maldonado drove in a run on a sacrifice bunt to make it 5-3. Houston starter Luis Garcia (1-0) allowed four hits and three runs with seven strikeouts in 5 2/3 innings for the win. Phil Maton, Rafael Montero and Hector Neris combined to shut out the Angels the rest of the way. Lorenzen took the loss after allowing four hits and four runs with two walks in 3 1/3 innings. Brantley singled with one out in the first before Alvarez sent a slider into the right-field stands with two outs to make it 2-0. The Angels tied it up on a two-out double by Tyler Wade in the second inning. Lorenzen’s bases-loaded walk of rookie Jeremy Peña with one out in the fourth put the Astros on top 3-2. Lorenzen then plunked Jose Siri on the hand to score another run and end his night. With two outs in the sixth, Stassi homered to right field to cut the lead to 4-3 and chase Garcia. The Astros had runners at first and third with one out in the sixth when Martin Maldonado drove in a run on a sacrifice bunt to make it 5-3.  The Astros received their AL championship rings in a pregame ceremony. The rings feature 104 round diamonds to commemorate the team’s wins in the 2021 season. Along with diamonds, the rings have blue and orange sapphires for a total weight of about 7.10 carats. After the rings were handed out, the team unveiled its 2021 AL championship pennant on the wall in left field.