 Good morning, fellow Escapists. There’s something  special about swapping travel recommendations, whether they’re exchanged between lifelong friends or strangers on a train. When I began writing Escapes, I shared that I hoped it would be “as much your travel newsletter as it is mine.” That’s why I ask for your suggestions each week — and why I’m excited to bring you the very first edition made up entirely of reader recommendations. Here, you’ll discover places to go in Ojai, San Diego, Cambria and Joshua Tree. As always, if you have a travel tip you’d like to pass along, please let me know.   The Central California coast is lined with laidback towns ideal for enjoying the pleasures of life — and little Cambria, tucked amid Monterey pines, might just feel the most peaceful of all. I included Cambria  in last week’s newsletter, where I recommended including the  community — and a stop at Moonstone Beach and Linn’s Easy as Pie Cafe for a slice of  olallieberry pie — on a drive up Highway 1. Reader Peter Valk happened to be in Cambria as he read the latest edition of Escapes, and he emailed me with a few suggestions:   Travelers from all over the globe have heard of the San Diego Zoo. But there are many other places nearby to see wildlife, large and small. “Whales are pretty easy to spot with binoculars from the cliffs above Black’s Beach behind the Torrey Pines Gliderport,” wrote writes one reader. “I’ve seen them just beyond the breaking surf in shallow water there.” The reader shared a few tips for anyone hoping to catch a glimpse: “[It] helps to go in the morning before the wind starts rippling the water and the sun’s glare makes seeing them tougher.” For glimpsing smaller marine life, the reader recommended visiting Cabrillo National Monument and Ocean Beach Pier. Could you use a coffee and a bite to eat on your way down to San Diego? A reader named Venelina recommends stopping by MRKT Space in Encinitas, which offers croissants, muffins, Mediterranean-style sandwiches and more.   What’s the best view in Joshua Tree National Park? A local reached out to me to share her thoughts. “I was born and raised here, and there are too many wonderful places to count,” wrote Julie O’Neil. “But one of my very favorites is Keys View.” The wheelchair-accessible lookout off Keys View Road — “through some of the loveliest parts of our desert,” O’Neil said — is a popular spot in Joshua Tree  for a good reason. “At the top of the hill, you can enjoy the views of the Coachella Valley to the south, Mt. San Jacinto and beyond,” she  said. “The feeling of being on top of the world without climbing a mountain is breathtaking.” The San Andreas Fault, which cuts through the Coachella Valley, can also be seen from the lookout. If you visit on an exceptionally clear day —  unfortunately uncommon  because of poor air quality — you may even be able to see Mexico’s Mt. Signal, just south of the border west of Mexicali, according to the park’s website. Another reader reached out with these suggestions for exploring the park: Hoping to see some art while in  Joshua Tree? Another reader suggested the Simi Dabah Sculpture garden, which you can see from Sunfair Road. Haven’t had a chance to pick up your share of Ojai pixie tangerines this season? Susan Petrella recommends Friend’s Ranch in Ojai, run by a family that has been growing citrus in the area for over a century. It’s “the premier place to purchase those delicious pixies, other yummy tangerines, avocadoes, lemons, [etc.],” Petrella said. “ My husband and I discovered Friend’s Ranch at the Hollywood Farmers Market and have been faithful customers.” Travelers can also pick up Friend’s Ranch citrus  directly from the farm’s packinghouse in Ojai, open on  7 a.m.  to noon Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays through May. While you’re in Ojai, save time to explore the town. Andrea Pett sent me a few  favorite spots:   Song: “Good Legs” by Jensen McRae Favorite lyric: “And you said, ‘Don’t live in your head. The world’s so wide, why not explore?’” Where to play it: Waiting in traffic at LAX