SUNDAY Our intrepid Time Lord (Jodie Whittaker) returns in the all-new sci-fi adventure “Doctor Who: Legend of the Sea Devils.” 2:10 and 8 p.m. BBC America Love means never having to say “My visa’s expired” in new episodes of the reality series “90 Day Fiancé.” 8 p.m. TLC U.S. presidents’ better halves take center stage in the new historical drama “The First Lady.” With Michelle Pfeiffer as Betty Ford, Gillian Anderson as Eleanor Roosevelt and Viola Davis as Michelle Obama. 9 p.m. Showtime MONDAY “Twilight’s” Robert Pattinson dons cape and cowl and a fearsome scowl to play “The Batman” in this lengthy 2022 reboot of the superhero franchise. With Zoë Kravitz. Anytime, HBO Max; also 8 p.m. Saturday, HBO “E60” looks back at the Penn State sex abuse scandal in the new episode “The Paterno Legacy.” 5 p.m. ESPN, 8 p.m. ESPN2 “Better Call Saul” while you still can. This “Breaking Bad” prequel starring Bob Odenkirk is back for a sixth and final season. 9 p.m. AMC Bon appetit! The winning chef is revealed in the season finale of “The Julia Child Challenge.” 9 p.m. Food Network Comic Tiffany Haddish does a solid for her BFF in the Season 3 premiere of the home renovation series “Celebrity IOU.” 9 p.m. HGTV “POV” pays a visit to the last remaining abortion clinic on the U.S.-Mexico border in the new documentary “On the Divide.” 10 p.m. KOCE TUESDAY  The new documentary “White Hot: The Rise & Fall of Abercrombie & Fitch” tells the tawdry tale of that scandal-plagued clothing line. Anytime, Netflix The new series “Yorkshire Ripper: The Secret Murders” reopens the case of the serial killer who terrorized northern England in the 1970s. Anytime, Sundance Now Shark! But don’t worry, it’s just golf great Greg Norman, the subject of an all-new edition of “30 for 30.” 5:30 p.m. ESPN, 11:30 p.m. ESPN2 CNN anchor Erin Burnett and the late fashionista André Leon Talley are featured on the season finale of “Finding Your Roots With Henry Louis Gates, Jr.” 8 p.m. KOCE “Mank’s” Amanda Seyfried stars as a children’s book author battling postpartum depression in the 2021 drama “A Mouthful of Air.” 8 p.m. Starz Bye-bye, “black-ish.” The family sitcom starring Anthony Anderson and Tracee Ellis Ross ends its eight-season run. A farewell special follows. 9 and 9:30 p.m. ABC Not a step back: The Soviets hold the line at the Battle of Stalingrad on a new installment of “Rise of the Nazis: Dictators at War.” 9 p.m. KOCE “Frontline” takes the fossil fuel industry to task over its inaction in the face of climate change in the new three-part exposé “The Power of Big Oil.” 10 p.m. KOCE Somethings fishy, and it’s the Season 3 premiere of the franchise entry “Deadliest Catch: Bloodline.” 10 p.m. Discovery Channel Vroom! The “Sons of Anarchy” spinoff “Mayans M.C.” rolls into a fourth season with two new episodes. With JD Pardo. 10 and 11 p.m. FX WEDNESDAY The new documentary “The Conversations With a Killer: The John Wayne Gacy Tapes” recounts the shocking crimes of the serial murderer who was executed in 1994. Anytime, Netflix The cast of “The Real World: New Orleans” is the latest to reunite in a new season of “The Real World Homecoming.” Anytime, Paramount+ The old gal’s still got some life in her yet as the darkly comic fantasy-drama “Russian Doll” kicks off Season 2. Natasha Lyonne stars. Anytime, Netflix This just in: Local rapper pokes fun at fumbling felons in the new reality series “So Dumb It’s Criminal Hosted by Snoop Dogg.” Anytime, Peacock He will, he will, rock you! The new special “Freddie Mercury: The Final Act” revisits a star-studded 1992 concert held in celebration of the dearly departed Queen frontman. 8 p.m. the CW Conservation scientist M. Sanjayan sounds the alarm about climate change in the new special “Changing Planet.” 8 p.m. KOCE Straight outta South Gate: The new documentary “Cypress Hill: Insane in the Brain” salutes the homegrown 1990s-era hip-hop crew. 9 p.m. Showtime THURSDAY The new documentary “Captive Audience” recalls the case of the 7-year-old whose abduction in 1972 inspired the made-for-TV miniseries “I Know My First Name Is Steven.” Anytime, Hulu Former “Big Bang Theory” co-star Kaley Cuoco is back in new episodes of the mystery comedy “The Flight Attendant.” Anytime, HBO Max Up-and-coming comics get their five minutes and then some in the new stand-up special “Marlon Wayans Presents: The Headliners.” Anytime, HBO Max  FRIDAY  An L.A. couple whose move to the wilds of Ventura County was the subject of a 2018 documentary is back in the new special “The Biggest Little Farm: The Return.” Anytime, Disney+ “Free Solo” rock climber Alex Honnold sets his sights on a 1,000-foot cliff face in the Amazon in the new special “Explorer: The Last Tepui.” Anytime, Disney+ Two young British lads discover themselves, and each other, in the new LGBTQ-themed coming-of-age drama “Heartstopper.” Anytime, Netflix Try the veal! An aspiring comic (Jimmy O. Yang) gets a shot at becoming “The Opening Act” for a comedy legend (Cedric the Entertainer) in this 2020 tale. Anytime, AMC+ Chill with an ursus maritimus and her young cubs in the new nature doc “Polar Bear” and the companion special “Bear Witness.” Anytime, Disney+ If you can afford it, you don’t have to ask in new episodes of the real estate-themed reality series “Selling Sunset.” Anytime, Netflix It’s showtime! Get up close and personal with Lakers legend Earvin “Magic” Johnson in the new four-part series “They Call Me Magic.” Anytime, Apple TV+ The Duke and Duchess of Argyll duke it out in divorce court in the early 1960s in the fact-based drama “A Very British Scandal.” Paul Bettany and “The Crown’s” Claire Foy star. Anytime, Amazon Prime A two-night salute to the late Peter Bogdanovich gets underway with the filmmaker’s 1973 Depression-era fable “Paper Moon.” Ryan O’Neal and daughter Tatum O’Neal star. 5 p.m. Turner Classic Movies Thar she blows! Meet marine mammals of the cetacean persuasion in the new series “Secrets of the Whales.” Sigourney Weaver narrates. 7, 8, 9 and 10 p.m. National Geographic “The Night House” is haunted — haunted, I tells ya! — in this eerie 2020 psychological thriller. Rebecca Hall (“The Prestige”) stars. 8 p.m. HBO; also HBO Max Fanfare for Aaron Copland: The quintessential American composer is remembered in a new “Now Hear This” on “Great Performances.” 9 p.m. KOCE Tom Hardy returns as investigative reporter Eddie Brock and his parasitic alien BFF in the 2021 superhero sequel “Venom: Let There Be Carnage.” 10 p.m. Starz SATURDAY The debut installment of the true crime series “Rich & Shameless” profiles disgraced “Girls Gone Wild” creator Joe Francis. 4 p.m. TNT A woman who runs a shelter for rescue dogs meets a hunky soldier in the new TV movie “A Tail of Love.” 8 p.m. Hallmark Channel “Thou shalt not covet” is a lesson our heroine learns the hard way in the new TV movie “Greed: A Seven Deadly Sins Story.” With “High School Musical’s” Monique Coleman. 8 p.m. Lifetime         