Only a day before  Adele’s Las Vegas residency was scheduled to open, the singer has tearfully announced that all dates have to be rescheduled. “Weekends With Adele,” it appears, simply isn’t good to go. “I’m so sorry, but my show ain’t ready,” Adele said, fighting back tears, in an emotional video posted on social media Thursday afternoon. “We’ve tried absolutely everything that we can to put it together in time.” Blame the pandemic and the supply chain crisis. “We’ve been absolutely destroyed by delivery delays and COVID,” she explained. “Half my crew, half my team are down with COVID. They still are. And it’s been impossible to finish the show. And I can’t give you what I have right now, and I’m gutted. I’m gutted, and I’m sorry it’s so last-minute.”  The “Easy on Me” hitmaker couldn’t keep the tears at bay when she addressed those people who paid top dollar and found a way to Las Vegas for this coming weekend’s shows. “We’ve been awake for over 30 hours now trying to figure it out and we’ve run out of time,” she said. “I’m so upset, and I’m really embarrassed and I’m so sorry to everyone who traveled to get here. I’m really, really sorry.” The repercussions hit hard on social media, where one user had posted late Tuesday, “I arrived in Las Vegas last night, can’t wait to see Adele in 3 days. Love the view from my hotel room at the Bellagio.”  Another user tweeted Thursday, “My Vegas trip/Adele concert just vanished within seconds I’m on the EDGE.” “I traveled all the way from Sydney Australia to see @Adele tomorrow in Vegas,” wrote a third. “I spent thousands of dollars on this trip and now she canceled the night before. Very unprofessional and I am heartbroken.” People lamented paying $1,000, $2,000 and more for tickets that they couldn’t use, at least not immediately. But someone else urged people to hate the sickness, not the singer, writing, “listen guys who were meant to go to vegas… PLEASE don’t be mad at Adele or her team! they wanted to do something that was completely ALLOWED and with all the necessary precaution, but unfortunately covid took over and it wasn’t under their control. Be mad at covid instead.” “Weekends With Adele” was scheduled to run Fridays and Saturdays at  the Colosseum at Caesars Palace, starting this Friday and running through April 16. The singer had been scheduled to play a dozen shows at the 4,100-seat venue. “All dates will be rescheduled,” read the text on Adele’s social media. “More info coming soon.” She ended that with a broken-heart emoji.