Harry Styles, Billie Eilish and the artist formerly known as Kanye West will headline this year’s Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, which after multiple cancellations due to the COVID-19 pandemic is set to take place in April for the first time since 2019. The former boy-band heartthrob, the 20-year-old pop star and the rapper who now goes by Ye are scheduled to perform over two successive weekends April 15-17 and April 22-24 at the Empire Polo club in Indio. Eilish, who performed at Coachella in 2019, stands to become the youngest artist to headline the festival in its 23-year history. Ye last headlined in 2011 and brought his Sunday Service gospel show to Indio in 2019. Styles hasn’t previously played Coachella. Other acts on the bill for pop music’s highest-profile festival include rappers Lil Baby, 21 Savage, Baby Keem and Megan Thee Stallion; R&B singers Daniel Caesar, Giveon and Ari Lennox; singer-songwriters Phoebe Bridgers and Maggie Rogers; dance-music acts Flume and Disclosure; and internet-oddball-turned-Top-40-hitmaker Doja Cat. Swedish House Mafia, the reunited EDM trio, will also perform, along with film composer Danny Elfman, breakout Italian rock band Måneskin, regional Mexican group Grupo Firme and dozens of other acts. The highly anticipated show will mark Coachella’s return after the 2020 and 2021 editions were called off amid public-health concerns. A huge moneymaker for Goldenvoice, the Los Angeles-based promoter that puts it on, Coachella in 2020 was supposed to feature Frank Ocean, Travis Scott and a reunited Rage Against the Machine. Last August, Goldenvoice chief Paul Tollett told The Times that Ocean would headline the show in 2023. Scott reportedly dropped off the lineup after 10 attendees of his Astroworld festival died in Houston in November. Passes for the 2020 festival’s first weekend are sold out. A presale for remaining passes for the second weekend, which start at $549 (not including various fees), is scheduled to begin on Friday.