Parts of Southern California were hit by bursts of hail and heavy rain Tuesday afternoon as a cold system dropping in from the Gulf of Alaska moved through. Several areas including Pasadena and parts of the San Gabriel Valley were hit by the extreme weather, including enough hail in some areas to cover streets white. It was part of a storm system moving through after days of intense heat. All Los Angeles County beaches were closed about 5:30 p.m. because of lightning, according to L.A. County lifeguards.  Temperatures in the area dipped into the 50s and 60s — marking a dramatic swing from record-daily highs set just days ago, including 88 degrees in Burbank and 85 degrees at Los Angeles International Airport on Super Bowl Sunday. Tuesday’s lower temperatures are a return to normal for this time of year, according to Mike Wofford, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Oxnard. The average high temperature for the date is about 66 degrees. “Our big high-pressure ridge from last week is gone, and we have a cold, low-pressure system that’s working its way south through the state,” Wofford said. “It will be basically right overhead this afternoon.”  Along with cooler air, the system brought some light showers and a chance of snow in mountain areas. Rainfall amounts were forecast to be less than one-third of an inch, but local amounts up to half an inch are possible in some areas, the National Weather Service reported. Residents from Brentwood to Pasadena reported small bits of hail falling Tuesday afternoon, and the weather service’s L.A. office said a heavy shower with lightning and small hail was over La Cañada Flintridge and Pasadena about 4:30 p.m., moving east along the 210 Freeway toward Sierra Madre and Temple City. Nearly an inch of small hail had accumulated in Pasadena shortly before 5 p.m., the weather service said. Forecasters warned drivers to use caution because roads may be slick, said Lisa Phillips, a meteorologist with the weather service in Oxnard. As of 5:10 p.m., some of the strongest showers were moving over El Monte and Whittier, forecasters said. Heavy downpours with small hail were expected to move southeast toward Hacienda Heights, La Habra Heights and the City of Industry through 5:45 p.m. The system brought a variety of weather phenomena to the Southland. The weather service’s San Diego office reported snow falling during thunderstorms in the mountains about 3:30 p.m. Spotters reported a haboob, a kind of dust storm generated by sinking air from a thunderstorm, near the California-Nevada border, according to the weather service’s Las Vegas office. A winter weather advisory has been issued for portions of the Los Angeles County mountains through 10 p.m., with total snow accumulations of 5 inches possible above 5,000 feet and winds of up to 50 mph. Up to 1 inch of snow could accumulate over the Grapevine by the afternoon. Though the cool-down marks a turnabout after a weeklong heat wave, it will be short-lived. By Thursday and Friday, temperatures will climb back into the 70s, with yet another dry Santa Ana wind event likely to blow through, forecasters said. The winds last week helped fuel a pair of unseasonable Southern California fires, including the 150-acre Emerald fire near Laguna Beach and the 7-acre Sycamore fire, which destroyed two homes near Whittier. Though Los Angeles’ precipitation is slightly above average for the water year, almost all of that moisture came during December’s storms. January and February — the height of Southern California’s rainy season — have proved troublingly dry, leading some officials to express concern that fire conditions are shifting from seasonal to year-round. Fortunately, Wofford said, the weather on Wednesday — the day of the much-anticipated Rams Super Bowl championship parade in the Exposition Park area — should be pleasantly unremarkable. “It should be clear skies and quite nice,” he said. “I don’t think the weather is going to be anything people are going to be talking about.”