British authorities will offer a COVID-19 vaccine to nearly 6 million children in the 5-to-11 age group, officials said Wednesday. The government said young children will be offered a low-dose COVID-19 shot on a “non-urgent” basis beginning in April in England. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland also announced similar measures. “Parents can, if they want, take up the offer to increase protection against potential future waves of COVID-19 as we learn to live with this virus,” Health Secretary Sajid Javid said. The government’s independent vaccine advisory committee said that while the virus does not pose a threat to most children, a very small number who are infected will develop serious disease. About 85% of the 12 and older population in the U.K. has been fully vaccinated, but the country has lagged behind the United States and European countries including France, Germany and Italy in vaccinating younger children. Currently, children 11 and younger are eligible for a vaccine only if they have medical conditions that put them at serious risk of complications from the coronavirus. Authorities said Wednesday that young children will be offered two 10-microgram doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, with an interval of at least 12 weeks between doses. New coronavirus infections have fallen in many parts of the U.K., although the number of cases by age group remained the highest among schoolchildren. The official statistics agency reported Wednesday that about 1 in 13 children 2 to 11 were likely to have had COVID-19 last week.  British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to outline on Monday his long-term strategy for “living with COVID.” Johnson said last week that all remaining domestic restrictions in England, including the legal requirement for infected individuals to self-isolate, could be lifted within weeks. England has already scrapped most restrictive measures, such as mandatory face masks and vaccine “passports” for entering nightclubs and large events. Northern Ireland has lifted all legal restrictions. In Scotland, face coverings are still are required in indoor public spaces, and nightclubs check vaccine “passports.”