The three white men convicted of murder in the fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery were found guilty of federal hate crimes and lesser charges Tuesday for violating Arbery’s civil rights and targeting him because he was Black. In addition to the federal hate crimes, the jury also found father and son Greg and Travis McMichael and neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan guilty of attempted kidnapping, while the McMichaels were also found guilty of the use of a firearm in the commission of a crime.  During the trial, prosecutors showed roughly two dozen text messages and social media posts in which Travis McMichael and Bryan used racist slurs and made derogatory comments about Black people. The FBI wasn’t able to access Greg McMichael’s phone because it was encrypted.    The McMichaels grabbed guns and jumped in a pickup truck to pursue Arbery after seeing him running in their neighborhood outside this port city  in February 2020. Bryan joined the pursuit in his own pickup truck and recorded cellphone video of Travis McMichael firing the fatal shots. Arbery’s killing became part of a larger national reckoning on racial injustice after the graphic video of the shooting was leaked online two months later. The McMichaels and Bryan had pleaded not guilty to the hate crime charges. Defense attorneys contended that the three didn’t chase and kill Arbery because of his race but acted on the sincere, if erroneous, suspicion that Arbery had committed crimes in their neighborhood. The panel of eight white people, three Black people and one Latino person received the case Monday following a weeklong trial in U.S. District Court. The jurors adjourned for the night after about three hours of deliberations, and resumed deliberations at 9 a.m. Tuesday.  The trial closed Monday with prosecutors saying that 25-year-old Arbery’s slaying on a residential street was motivated by “pent-up racial anger,” as revealed by the defendants’ electronic messages as well as by witnesses who testified to hearing them make racist tirades and insults. “All three defendants told you loud and clear, in their own words, how they feel about African Americans,” prosecutor Tara Lyons told the jury Monday. Defense attorneys insisted that past racist statements by their clients offered no proof that they violated Arbery’s civil rights and targeted him because he was Black. They urged jury members to set aside their emotions.  “It’s natural for you to want retribution or revenge,” said Pete Theodocion, representing Bryan. “But we have to elevate ourselves ... even if it’s the tough thing.” The basic facts aren’t disputed. The slaying of Arbery almost exactly two years ago, on Feb. 23, 2020, was captured in the graphic cellphone video that sparked widespread outrage. After the shooting, police found that Arbery had no weapon and no stolen items. Prosecutors said he was merely out jogging. Travis McMichael’s attorney, Amy Lee Copeland, told the jury that prosecutors presented no evidence that he “ever spoke to anyone about Mr. Arbery’s death in racial terms.” She said her client opened fire in self-defense after Arbery tried to take away his shotgun.  Greg McMichael’s attorney, A.J. Balbo, argued that his client initiated the chase not because Arbery was a Black man but because he was “THE man” the McMichaels had seen in security camera videos taken from a nearby house under construction. The McMichaels and Bryan, convicted of murder last fall in a Georgia state court, pleaded not guilty to the federal charges. FBI agents uncovered roughly two dozen racist text messages and social media posts from the McMichaels and Bryan in the years and months preceding the shooting. For instance, in 2018, Travis McMichael commented on a Facebook video of a Black man playing a prank on a white person, saying he would “kill” the jokester and using a racial epithet to describe him. Some witnesses testified that they had heard the McMichaels’ racist statements firsthand. One woman testified that Greg McMichael had ranted angrily, “All those Blacks are nothing but trouble,” in 2015 when she remarked on the death of civil rights activist Julian Bond.