Los Angeles will honor the Super Bowl champion Rams with a parade Wednesday through the Exposition Park area. The roughly one-mile parade will kick off at 11 a.m. at the Shrine Auditorium on West Jefferson Boulevard, team officials said. It will wind down Figueroa Street before turning onto Exposition Park Drive and landing at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum about 11:45 a.m. A rally will be held at the Coliseum’s Olympic Plaza and Peristyle Arch from noon to 1 p.m. It will be the first such victory parade since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. No parades were held after the Lakers and Dodgers championship wins in 2020 because of concerns about large gatherings.  Some L.A. sports fans thought Wednesday’s parade should honor all three teams. “Are we getting that super city of champions parade now?” the Dodgers Nation fan page wrote on Twitter. City officials had previously said celebrations would be held to honor the 2020 wins, but those plans never came to fruition. Los Angeles entered the first winter surge of COVID-19 not long after the Lakers and Dodgers claimed their titles.  Anaheim resident Marlon Futures said he expects people to treat Wednesday’s parade as a combination event “whether or not the Rams or the city of L.A. mean for it to turn out that way.” Futures, 33, said he’s thinking of donning a Rams hoodie and a “classic purple and gold Lakers snapback” at the parade to honor more than one team — or possibly buying a Rams Super Bowl hat so he can “rock a throwback [Nick] Van Exel jersey.” Lakers star LeBron James agreed: “We, Dodgers and Rams should all do a joint parade together!!!!” he tweeted Monday, adding: “City of Champions.” Though the Lakers celebrated with a parade in 2010 after a previous championship win, the Dodgers have not had a parade in L.A. since 1988. Studio City resident Giselle Caren, who has attended several World Series games, said that she is hoping to gather some friends to attend the event Wednesday and that she will probably wear Dodgers gear. “I love the Lakers and the Rams — truly special wins — but the Dodgers take my heart,” said Caren, 28. The Rams on Sunday defeated the Cincinnati Bengals 23-20 before 70,048 people at SoFi Stadium to win their first Super Bowl title in Los Angeles. The team is also being honored with a temporary installation at the Hollywood sign this week, which will be transformed to read “Rams House” through Wednesday. The win marked a dramatic return for professional football in Los Angeles after a long absence. The  Lakers, Dodgers, Kings and Sparks have all won multiple world championships. But not everyone thought the day should be for multiple teams. “As far as the Dodgers and Lakers are concerned, fair or not, that ship sailed two years ago,” one person tweeted. “Today is Rams’ time.” Whittier resident George Whipple Jr., 47, shared a similar sentiment. He said he grew up going to Rams games in Anaheim and hasn’t missed a home game since their return to L.A. “Let the Rams have their own parade,” Whipple said. “This is the first Super Bowl title for L.A. in 38 seasons and the Rams’ first in L.A. Let them have their own!”