In a sweeping move to isolate and condemn Russia after that nation invaded Ukraine, the International Olympic Committee urged sports bodies on Monday to exclude the country’s athletes and officials from international events. The IOC said the move was needed to “protect the integrity of global sports competitions and for the safety of all the participants.” The decision opened the way for FIFA, the governing body of soccer, to exclude Russia from a World Cup qualifying playoff match on March 24. Poland has refused to play the scheduled game against Russia. The Olympic body’s call also applied to athletes and officials from Belarus, which has abetted Russia’s invasion by allowing its territory to be used to station troops and launch military attacks. The IOC said it acted “with a heavy heart” but the effect of war on Ukrainian sports outweighed the potential damage done to athletes from Russia and Belarus. It was not a total blanket ban by the IOC. Where exclusion was “not possible on short notice for organizational or legal reasons,” then teams from Russia and Belarus should compete as neutral athletes with no national flag, anthem or symbols, including at the upcoming Winter Paralympics in Beijing. The IOC also withdrew the Olympic Order it gave Vladimir Putin in 2001, and other Russian officials since. Sports bodies across Europe had already moved against Russia on Monday by refusing to host or play against teams from the country.  Finland wants the Russian hockey team to be banned from the men’s world championships it will host in May, the Swiss soccer federation said its women’s team will not play Russia in July at the European Championship, and German soccer club Schalke said it had decided to end its long-standing partnership with Russian state-owned energy giant Gazprom. FIFA declined to ban Russia from the World Cup over the weekend. Instead, the soccer body said the country’s national team will have to compete as Football Union of Russia as punishment. Besides Poland, both Sweden and the Czech Republic, Russia’s next potential opponents, have said they will refuse to take the field against them. “The Swedish Football Association is disappointed with FIFA’s decision but is determined to continue to work together with other federations to cancel Russia’s matches in the upcoming World Cup qualifiers,” the body said Monday, citing the “illegal and deeply unjust invasion of Ukraine.” The World Cup is scheduled to begin on Nov. 21 in Qatar.