South East soccer coach Felipe Bernal might have earned a campus parade after pulling off one of the biggest coaching accomplishments in City Section soccer history. Earlier in the week, his team knocked off No. 1-seeded El Camino Real. Then on Saturday night at Valley College, South East got an overtime goal from Nico Magaña to defeat No. 2 Birmingham 2-1 to win the Division I championship. Birmingham was the defending champion. David Diaz scored his 30th goal for Birmingham to tie the score 1-1 after an early South East goal, but South East’s defense remained tight throughout to inflict a rare defeat on the Patriots. Both teams will continue when the regional playoffs begin next week. Southern Section Division 2: Redondo Union got a late goal to defeat Montebello 1-0.  Southern Section Division 1: Temecula Valley came away with a 2-0 win over Corona Santiago.  Southern Section Division 1: Viewpoint, using just seven players, stunned top-seeded Camarillo 59-53. Karlee White finished with 37 points. Gabriela Jaquez of Camarillo was held to 20 points. City Section Division I: Sophomore Grace Marot scored 15 points to lead El Camino Real past West Valley League rival Taft 45-41. City Section Division II: Junior Nicole Vanegas poured in 26 points to help Verdugo Hills defeat Chatsworth 53-43. It was the Dons’ third consecutive City title, following wins in Division IV and Division III.   City Section Division II: Sophomore Donovan Cornelius scored 13 of his 18 points in the third quarter to lift LACES to a 61-46 victory over Van Nuys. Servite 18, Lakewood 5: Leadoff hitter Jarrod Hocking went five for five with three RBIs to lead the Friars (5-0) to the Loara tournament championship. Jonathan Rodriguez added three hits and three RBIs. Bishop Amat 4, Los Alamitos 0: Alejandro Morales struck out eight, walked one and gave up six hits for Bishop Amat. Chatsworth 2, Palisades 1: Joseph Sanez threw six shutout innings for Chatsworth in an eight-inning victory. Westlake 4, Bell 0: Dominic Bayless struck out seven in five innings and gave up two hits for Westlake. Nate Kaczynski contributed three hits. Loyola 9, Banning 7: Jackson Shea had three RBIs for the Cubs. Cypress 5, Texas Southlake Carroll 1: Matthew Morrell and Nick Montgomery each had two hits, and John Short had three RBIs. Mira Costa 11, Venice 3: Robert Love had three hits and Dillon DeSpain added two hits and three RBIs for Mira Costa. Yucaipa 4, Foothill 1: Owen Egan, a UCLA commit, struck out 1`1 in a complete game. Jacob Reimer finished with three hits and four RBIs. JSerra 7, Texas Marcus 6: JJ Hollis hit a three-run home run and also got the save on the mound. Santa Margarita 3, Corona del Sol 2: The Eagles won in nine innings. Villa Park 8, El Modena 0: Al Krodel struck out nine in six innings for Villa Park. Gavin Grahovac had three hits. Torrance 3, Palos Verdes 0: Aidan Irvine threw five shutout innings with seven strikeouts and no walks.