Richard Blum, a San Francisco businessman, philanthropist and the husband of Sen. Dianne Feinstein, died late Sunday, the senator’s office announced Monday morning. “My heart is broken today,” Feinstein said in a statement. “My husband was my partner and best friend for more than 40 years. He was by my side for the good times and for the challenges. I am going to miss him terribly.” Blum died at the family home after a long battle with cancer, the senator’s office said. He was 86. Blum was chairman of equity investment management firm Blum Capital Partners. He also dedicated much of his life to the people of the Himalayas, founding the American Himalayan Foundation in 1981 — something Feinstein described as “one of his proudest achievements.” “As a role model, Dick was second to none, and I think his compassion and devotion to the people of the Himalayan region may prove to be his most enduring legacy,” she said. Feinstein has represented California in the U.S. Senate since 1992. She and Blum married in 1980 when she was mayor of San Francisco. “Dick was incredibly devoted to his family, particularly his daughters and his grandchildren, and my heart is with them and everyone who Dick encountered,” Feinstein said. “He was the type of man who really replaced his divot in life, who left things better than he found them. His enormous generosity is an inspiration for so many of us.”  A longtime friend of the Dalai Lama, Blum was an honorary consul of Nepal, the senator’s office said. He also founded the Blum Center for Developing Economies at UC Berkeley, which is focused on addressing global poverty. On Monday, condolences poured in from both the state’s and nation’s capitals and beyond. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco) said she and her husband, Paul, were “heartbroken to learn of the passing of our dear friend.” “A lifelong San Franciscan, Richard was a powerful force for good in our city,” Pelosi said in a statement. “Building a successful career in business, he constantly gave back to our city: whether as a patron of our arts, a donor to our food banks or a benefactor to our efforts to end homelessness.” U.S. Sen. Alex Padilla (D-Calif.) described Blum as a “compassionate humanitarian who dedicated his life to improving the world for others, whether by founding the Blum Center for Developing Economies at UC Berkeley or leading a decades-long project to end human trafficking in Nepal.” “Above all, Dick was devoted to his family,” Padilla said. “Over his four decades of marriage to Sen. Feinstein, he took tremendous joy in supporting her pioneering leadership as a public servant. Angela and I send our deepest condolences and prayers to Dianne and her family in this difficult time.” For nearly two decades, Blum served as a member of the University of California Board of Regents and was chairman emeritus of the board. Blum also served as co-chairman of the World Conference on Religion and Peace and was a founding member of National Geographic’s International Council of Advisors. Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) said in a statement that he had long admired Blum’s commitment to issues in the Himalayas and across Asia, and noted that the Blum Center for Developing Economies secured more than $650 million to address global poverty through its “Big Ideas” contest. “Richard said he set out to create a ‘do tank,’ not a ‘think tank,’ and his success in doing so ensures that his legacy will far outlive him,” Coons said. A 1990 profile of Blum published in the lead-up to Feinstein’s senate run painted him as a well-connected man of many passions and interests. He was “a self-made millionaire, investor, money manager, mountain climber, distance runner, philanthropist, human-rights activist and friend of the famous,” the profile said. Friends and associates described him as an “aggressive straight shooter with boundless drive and a disarming ‘Lt. Columbo style’ that might seem to border on the bumbling but is actually quite effective.” Blum was a trustee of the executive committee of the Carter Center and sat on several boards, including the World Wildlife Fund, the Wilderness Society, the Brookings Institution, the California Academy of Sciences and the Glide Foundation, Feinstein’s office said. “We have a hole in our hearts that will never be filled,” Feinstein said. “Dick, we love you, we’ll miss you and we’ll continue to celebrate everything you accomplished during an amazing life.” Speaking to The Times in 1990, Blum said he believed in “pushing whatever happens to be my agenda to the max.” “Despite the fact that I’ve spent a lot of time with Tibetans (discussing reincarnation), ... no one has convinced me we come this way more than once,” he said. Times staff writers Seema Mehta and Jennifer Haberkorn contributed to this report.