Jordan Eberle scored with 1:42 remaining to give the Seattle Kraken a 4-3 win over the Ducks on Friday night at Honda Center. Ryan Donato had two goals and Vince Dunn scored for the first-year Kraken (16-28-4), who have won consecutive road games for the second time. Chris Dreidger made 24 saves. Isac Lundestrom scored twice and Rickard Rakell had a power-play goal, but the Ducks (23-17-9) lost in their return from the All-Star break to end a 4-0-2 run. John Gibson made 23 saves, and Jamie Drysdale had two assists. Eberle and Riley Sheahan caught the Ducks in a two-on-one rush, with Eberle scoring his 13th goal of the season to get the victory in a feisty affair. Lundestrom tied the score at 2 at 5:34 of the second, racing into the offensive zone with Derek Grant off a timely change as Troy Terry’s forecheck forced a turnover. Lundestrom chipped Grant’s pass on net, where it hit the post and bounced in off Dreidger. Rakell put the Ducks ahead 3-2 three minutes later, tipping Drysdale’s shot from the blue line as he was alone in front of Dreidger setting a screen from just outside the crease. Rakell scored for the third consecutive game. Donato evened things up at 3 with 6:25 remaining in the second, burying a wrist shot from the high slot after Ducks defenseman Josh Mahura’s pass went off referee Justin St. Pierre and was grabbed by Yanni Gourde.  The Kraken went in front two minutes into the game when Donato fired a blistering slap shot on a one-timer from Austin Czarnik, who made his debut for Seattle after being claimed off waivers from the New York Islanders on Tuesday. The Ducks responded 12 seconds later to tie it up at 1. Lundestrom scored into an open net from the slot set up by Jakob Silfverberg’s backhand pass, with the 22-year-old Swede reaching 10 goals for the first time in his career. Seattle took a 2-1 lead when Dunn scored his sixth goal with 5:19 left in the first. With bodies concentrated on the right side of the ice, Gourde found Dunn alone in the left circle. Notes: Gourde had two assists. ... Seattle defenseman Jamie Oleksiak returned after missing nine games because of a lower-body injury. ... Ducks center Trevor Zegras had an assist, giving the rookie 33 points through 43 games. ... Ducks forward Sonny Milano played for the first time since Jan. 14. He missed eight games because of an upper-body injury. ... Ducks center Sam Carrick missed the game for the birth of his second child. Up next: The Kraken host Toronto on Monday night, and the Ducks are at Calgary on Wednesday night.