In the marriage capital of the world — Las Vegas — love is always in the air. This month, Clark County expects an influx of  marriage license applications, with one date, Feb. 22, 2022 (2/22/22) — a popular pick for numerology fans — expected to break records. The Marriage License Bureau in downtown Las Vegas was closed for six weeks in 2020, at the start of the pandemic, but quickly regained business in 2021. The number of marriage licenses issued that year surpassed 2019. Although the U.S. marriage rate is generally declining, the country will see an estimated 2.5 million weddings in 2022 — the highest number in the past decade, according to the Knot.  On Valentine’s Day morning, the  bureau  was bustling with soon-to-be-married couples. They were dressed in jeans and dresses, embracing and sharing kisses as they waited in line to purchase marriage licenses — the document that would render their union legally valid — for $102. Some days, the line is hundreds of feet long, wrapping around the block, said County Clerk Lynn Marie Goya,  who oversees  the bureau. “Everyone loves Valentine’s Day. Valentine’s is always a busy day for us,” Goya said. “It’s very easy to come to Clark County to get married.”  The office is open from 8 p.m. to midnight, every day of the year, and prides itself on efficiency. Most couples, Goya said, spend about  10 minutes waiting for their license. “If you’re planning a big wedding at home, that’s not who we are,” Goya said. “If you really want to focus on you and not the event, but the actual nuptials and celebrating with your family and friends, there’s no place like Vegas.” Dozens of wedding chapels were open for business Monday. Melissa and Jason Dowe  brought their two Yorkshire Terriers, Minni and Harley, to renew their vows at Vegas Weddings, in downtown Las Vegas. The two were truck drivers who shared their first kiss in 2014. That day, Jason told Melissa he would marry her. “I laughed in the man’s face,” Melissa said Monday morning. “I told him, ‘Good luck on that one.’”  