Thousands flock to Yosemite National Park in mid-February to see a natural phenomenon nicknamed “the firefall.” It’s a bit of a misnomer (read on), but that doesn’t diminish anyone’s desire to witness the spectacular ribbon of light that lasts just a few minutes each evening for a few weeks. The firefall is usually best seen in February, because that’s when the small Horsetail Fall is flowing from winter rains. But  in October, an atmospheric river hit Northern California and dumped more than 6 inches of rain in Yosemite over a 36-hour period. The waterfall suddenly flowed — and the firefall reappeared. If you’re planning a trip to Yosemite to see the show, here’s what you need to know about the 2022 firefall. The natural phenomenon occurs when the waning sunlight strikes Horsetail Fall on the famed rock face of El Capitan. The waterfall is backlighted by the setting sun, creating a streak of orange resembling a lava flow. “Just before and after sunset, it’s glowing like it’s on fire,” a Yosemite ranger once told me.   The window  for seeing the natural firefall  opened Feb. 10 and  continues through Feb. 28, according to the park. Photographer Aaron Meyers ranks optimal viewing times and dates every year as “best,” “better” and “good.” Meyers’ forecast for the best chance of seeing the glow this year is between 5:27 and 5:35 p.m.  Feb. 21. “Better” dates include Feb. 19, 20, 22 and 23; and good dates are Feb. 24 to 26. It’s not a slam-dunk. Certain factors can be a real buzz-kill. For starters, water needs to be flowing in the fall. Also, you need a clear night when fog or clouds   don’t obscure the light, according to Meyers. It’s all about being in the right place at the right time. If you’re minutes late because you couldn’t find a parking spot, you may have missed the show. No. You do need to pay the park’s $30 entry fee (good for seven days).   El Capitan Picnic Area on Northside Drive is the most popular spot, Meyers’ website says. It’s closest to the fall too. The park recommends parking at Yosemite Falls and walking 1.5 miles to the picnic area. If the lot at Yosemite Falls is full, park farther away (at Yosemite or Curry villages) and take the free shuttle, which is operating on a limited schedule. Parking and traffic restrictions are in effect from noon to 7 p.m. during firefall season. Let’s start with a good camera, a cable release and a sturdy tripod. Photographer Raul Roa of Times Community News, who has photographed the firefall many times, offers this advice: “iPhones are good for many things, but for this one, I think it’s best to either take a regular camera, something with a zoom lens, or just go and enjoy the sight. Fiddling with an iPhone exposure and zoom while the falls ‘catch fire’ is not what you want to be doing during a bucket-list, rare event like this one.” He carries two camera bodies, one with a wide-angle lens and one with a Sigma 60-600mm lens, plus a GoPro. Plan to stash your gear in a backpack in case you need to walk a few miles from your parking spot. Go early to scout out a place (folks start lining up as early as noon) and take test photos to make sure your camera is working properly. Bring a flashlight or headlamp so you can see where you are walking. Expect temperatures to be cold. Dress warmly, with layers of clothing, including an outer layer of fleece or a puffy down jacket, a warm hat and gloves. Make sure you have enough water and snacks to be out for a while. You also may need to carry tire chains in case the weather turns and they are required. And think about sticking around. If you miss it  one night, build in an extra day to try on a second night.  The term refers to the manmade firefall, a Yosemite hotel tradition that started in 1872. As the story goes, James McCauley, who owned the Glacier Point Mountain House Hotel, built a campfire and kicked the hot embers over the edge — creating a blazing spectacle as the fiery bits descended to the valley 3,200 feet below. People loved the effect. A second hotel owner later continued the tradition to the oohs and aahs of visitors. Yosemite put an end to the blazing ember show in 1968. But that didn’t snuff out the firefall. The name was revived when a photo of the natural fire-like glow on Horsetail Fall made the rounds in 1973. From the Ansel Adams Gallery website: “For the most part, it flowed with anonymity while casual observers passed it by; that is until a young climber and photographer named Galen Rowell changed the course of history.” Sign up for The Wild, a weekly newsletter about the great outdoors. It’s free and arrives in your email box every Thursday.