 The 5 Freeway through the Grapevine reopened Wednesday afternoon after a cold winter storm moving through Southern California prompted its closure for about five hours, officials said. Southbound lanes were closed at Grapevine Road and northbound lanes at Parker Road around 7 a.m. and reopened shortly after noon, according to the California Department of Transportation. The roadway is a major artery for travel, and traffic cameras operated by the agency showed cars stopped by a police barrier as ice and snow fell  early in the morning.  Though both lanes reopened, the California Highway Patrol advised drivers that roads remain slick. “Weather and roadway conditions still exist so we remind you to slow down, wear your seatbelt and prepare for extra time in your travels,” CHP said on Twitter. The National Weather Service said the storm, which arrived Tuesday, could continue to deliver strong winds, frigid temperatures, rain and low-elevation snow around the I-5 corridor but may ease as the day wears on. A winter weather advisory in the Los Angeles and Ventura County mountains was extended until 3 p.m., with officials warning that additional snow accumulations of up to 1 inch were possible, along with  gusts up to 35 mph.  The storm threatened to drop rain and hail across the L.A. area but stayed mostly to the north and eastern areas of the county and was generally drier than anticipated, officials said. Most areas in the county received less than a quarter-inch of precipitation. “The storm delivered on the snowfall amounts expected for the mountains, but the chance of showers and slight chance of thunderstorms we were talking about for the remainder of the area — like the lower elevations and the coastal sections — didn’t really materialize that much,” said David Sweet, a meteorologist with the weather service in Oxnard. Some parts of the state, however, saw more precipitation. Big Bear received up to 8 inches of snow, officials said, while the UC Berkeley Central Sierra Snow Lab in Donner Pass reported nearly 16 inches. But more will be needed to overcome deficits from the dry start to the year. Statewide snowpack remains low — measuring only 67% of normal for the date, according to the California Department of Water Resources. Still, the precipitation was welcome. Officials in Sacramento and the Bay Area said the storm broke dry spells that began in January and lasted more than 40 days. The storm also delivered on its promise of frigid temperatures. Freeze watches and warnings remain in effect through Thursday in several areas, including portions of the Inland Empire, Ventura County, the Bay Area and much of the Central Valley. Forecasters in Sacramento said temperatures in the 20s and 30s could tie or break some record lows for the date. Downtown Los Angeles is not expected to top 60 degrees. Dry weather is expected Thursday through the weekend, along with a gradual warming trend. 