Elias Lindholm scored twice and added an assist, extending his goal streak to six games as the Calgary Flames beat the Anaheim Ducks 6-2 on Wednesday night for their eighth straight victory. For the Pacific Division-leading Flames, it’s their longest winning streak since rattling off 10 in a row in 2016-17, which is tied for the franchise record. They’ve outscored their opponents 37-13 during the streak. Dillon Dube, Andrew Mangiapane, Johnny Gaudreau and Matthew Tkachuk also scored for Calgary (28-13-6). Flames defenseman Rasmus Andersson had a career-best three points with three assists. Gaudreau, who also had two assists, and Lindholm both pushed their point streaks to eight games. The Flames have also won eight in a row at home, outscoring visitors 41-10. Their seven-game homestand continues Saturday when they host expansion Seattle in Mark Giordano’s return. Sonny Milano and Isac Lundestrom scored for Anaheim (23-18-9), which opened a three-game trip through Western Canada. It was only the second game this month for the Ducks. Jacob Markstrom stopped 26 shots for the Flames. He made his 13th start in the last 14 games and improved to 21-10-5.   Anaheim starter John Gibson was replaced by Anthony Stolarz halfway through the second period after giving up four goals on 20 shots. He fell to 15-11-8. After Milano’s goal 1:35 into the second made it 2-1, Lindholm restored the two-goal cushion on a nifty individual effort. As he skated through the neutral zone, he banked the puck off the side boards in the Ducks zone and then chased after it, stepping around defenseman Greg Pateryn to collect the puck and then quickly put a shot into the top corner. The Flames made it 4-1 just 41 seconds later when the power play made it two straight conversions on Tkachuk’s 23rd goal. Calgary finished two for five on the power play while its third-ranked penalty kill went five for five. Anaheim got a short-handed goal 4:26 into the third to get back within two, but the Flames scored twice late to finish it off. 