Adrian Kempe scored his second goal in overtime, and the Kings defeated the Vegas Golden Knights 4-3 on Friday night. Andreas Athanasiou and Phillip Danault also scored for the Kings. Jonathan Quick had 21 saves to improve to 5-8-1 in his career against Vegas. Max Pacioretty had two goals and Reilly Smith also scored for the Golden Knights. Laurent Brossoit, appearing in his 100th career game, made 27 saves. With the win, the Kings moved into a tie for third place with Edmonton (57 points) in the Pacific Division. Vegas is alone in second with 60 points. Pacioretty opened the scoring when he gathered a loose puck just to the right of Quick, spun perfectly and found the back of the net for a power-play goal, making it 1-0 at 8:11 of the first period. The goal ended a 147:57 scoreless drought for the Knights, who were shut out in their previous two games. William Karlsson keyed the next score, creating a turnover in the neutral zone, and finding Jonathan Marchessault at the blue line. Marchessault skated into the zone and fed Smith, who one-timed it over Quick to give Vegas a 2-0 lead. The Kings didn’t take long to answer, as Athanasiou created his own breakaway when he flipped the puck past defenseman Nic Hague, broke free and skated in on Brossoit. Athanasiou went backhand-forehand to cut Vegas’ lead in half with his 99th career goal. Golden Knights center Chandler Stephenson was called for unsportsmanlike conduct at the end of the first period for tripping Matt Roy, giving the Kings a power play at puck drop of the second. And the Kings didn’t let the opportunity pass, as Kempe fired far side from the left circle, beating Brossoit in the top corner to knot the game  2-2.  Pacioretty put Vegas back on top at 6:33 of the second when he fired a wrist shot on net from the edge of the circle. After hitting the post, the puck redirected off Quick’s back and trickled over the goal line. Once again, the Kings tied the score when Viktor Arvidsson led Danault perfectly, springing him through a pair of Knights for a quick break to beat Brossoit glove side, making it 3-3 with 2:43 left in the middle period. Kings: At Arizona on Saturday night. Golden Knights: At San Jose on Sunday.