On Wednesday, state health officials lifted a requirement that all residents age 2 and older wear masks in most indoor public spaces. While the vast majority of California counties have said they will follow that guidance, some — Los Angeles, Santa Clara and Mendocino — are retaining local universal indoor mask mandates, likely until at least next month.  The revised guidance will allow people to go without face coverings outdoors at K-12 (including transitional kindergarten) schools and child care facilities, and will apply to exterior areas of “mega events,” such as those at the Hollywood Bowl, Dodger Stadium, SoFi Stadium and Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. Mask rules at these settings were lifted at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday. Masks continue to be required by the county in indoor public spaces. Despite the change to outdoor masking, Angelenos — regardless of vaccination status — will still be required to wear face coverings in indoor public spaces for at least the near term.  L.A. County will have stricter rules in place than San Diego, Orange, Riverside or San Bernardino counties, which don’t have their own mask orders.  Palm Springs also plans to keep its indoor masking policy in place for the time being. Meanwhile, officials at Disneyland on Tuesday confirmed that the Anaheim resort will follow the state’s guidelines by allowing vaccinated visitors to enter indoor eateries, stores and attractions without masks, starting Thursday. Unvaccinated visitors must wear a mask in those settings, but park employees will not be checking vaccination records, Disney representatives said. Knott’s Berry Farm in Buena Park and Sea World in San Diego have also announced plans to follow the state guidelines regarding masks.  Even under California’s relaxed rules, almost everyone — vaccinated or not — will still have to wear a mask when: If you’re unvaccinated, California also requires masks when you’re:  Even though vaccinated people will have the freedom to go maskless in these indoor environments, the state Department of Public Health recommends that vaccinated people continue to cover their noses and mouths “when the risk may be high.” For now, only certain categories of people are allowed to go without masks: