Jayland Walker, the 25-year-old Black man killed in a hail of police gunfire in the Ohio city of Akron last month, was shot or grazed 46 times, according to a preliminary autopsy report released Friday by the Medical Examiners Office in Summit County.  Dr. Lisa Kohler, the Summit County medical examiner, said it was impossible to say which bullet killed Walker or the number of shots that were fired. Walker “had several very devastating injuries that would cause death,” including injuries to his heart, lungs and arteries, Kohler said. He had five wounds in his back, but it’s impossible to say whether those came as he ran away or turned as he was being shot, Kohler said. The medical examiner gave a summary of the report from the inquiry into Walker’s death at a news conference. The report was finalized Thursday. Preliminary findings released earlier indicated Walker’s body had more than 60 wounds. Greta Johnson, Summit County communications director, said Friday it was “very possible” that one bullet could cause multiple entrance wounds. The June 27 pursuit began when officers tried to pull  Walker over for equipment violations. Authorities say Walker fired a gunshot from his car 40 seconds into the chase.  An attorney for Walker’s family says there was no need for officers to kill him. The publicized summary comes a day after the NAACP made a direct plea to Atty. Gen. Merrick Garland for the Justice Department to open a federal civil rights investigation into Walker’s death. Police body-camera footage shows Walker wearing a ski mask, jumping out of the front passenger door of his still-moving car and then running into the parking lot where police opened fire. The blurry footage does not clearly show what authorities say was a threatening gesture made by Walker before he was shot. An unloaded handgun, an ammunition clip and what appeared to be a wedding band were found on the front driver’s seat of Walker’s car, authorities said. The officers involved are on paid leave while the state investigates the shooting. Seven of those officers are white, and one is Black. None of them has a record of discipline, substantiated complaints or fatal shootings, according to the Police Department. The local police union has said that the officers thought there was an immediate threat of serious harm and that it believes their actions and the number of shots will be found justified in line with their training and protocols. Police in neighboring New Franklin Township had tried to stop and then chased a car matching Walker’s for the same minor equipment violations less than 24 hours before the Akron chase. A supervisor there called off the pursuit when the car crossed the township’s border with Akron. Bobby DiCello, an attorney for Walker’s family, has said Walker did not deserve to die. DiCello said after Walker’s funeral service that he would hold police accountable for every round fired from their guns.