Traditional newspapers have been laying off writers and editors for more than a decade. But writing and editing jobs are rapidly expanding on the web. Whether it’s to fuel corporate websites, feed new blogs or to support the burgeoning self-published book industry, good communicators have a variety of choices. Indeed, writing and editing jobs are so copious and varied that you may need to narrow the field by choosing the genre to pursue. Here are some of the many types of writing you can do and the platforms that can help you find writing and editing jobs in that niche. Comedy If you’re funny and have an irreverent way of looking at the world, try writing for Cracked. One of the largest comedy writing sites on the web, Cracked takes submissions from pretty much anyone. And, if your article is accepted, the pay isn’t too bad. According to Cracked’s “write for us” pitch: “For your first four accepted articles, you will get $150 each. From your fifth article onward, you will get $250.” Importantly, too, articles on Cracked are published with your byline and can link back to your own site. This makes Cracked a solid way to build your comedy writing resume. But the site’s editors expect stories to be funny, accurate and well sourced. Corporate Contently connects companies looking for copy with writers willing and able to produce it. One of the things that makes this site special is that it does not allow writers to bid against one another. (Competitive bidding tends to push prices into the basement.) Instead, it establishes a price for each piece and offers the job to writers qualified to complete the work. Although the jobs are not all high paying, they fall into a reasonable range. And each job is clearly described so freelancers can decide whether the pay is worth their time.   Skyword connects Fortune 1000 clients with content creators, who produce blog posts, infographics and corporate videos. The client sets the rate of pay, which can be accepted or rejected by the freelancer. And Skyword charges the client (not the freelancer) a fee for the matchmaking service. All contracts also include a “kill fee” to ensure that freelancers won’t walk away empty-handed if a client changes their mind. FreeUp enlists freelancers to create content for websites, brochures and other projects. Rates are set by your experience level. Experienced content creators earn $30 or more per hour. Creative PenguinFreelancers, one of the largest publishers in the world, seeks remote freelancers for copy editing, proofreading, cold reading and indexing. Copy editors and proofreaders must read at a pace averaging 10 pages per hour. Cold readers should read 10 to 20 pages per hour. Copy editors earn roughly $36 per hour, while proofreaders and cold readers earn $31, according to the site’s job posting. Reedsy connects authors with professional editors, writers and designers who can move a book project from concept to reality. Most authors using the site are planning to self-publish, so the quality of manuscripts varies widely. Editors set their own rates and payment formulas, determining when progress payments are required. Payments are collected by the site automatically, saving editors from late-paying clients. Marketing and Advertising Creatively connects creative artists of all stripes with companies and individuals who need their services. The site makes it easy to post a portfolio and apply to jobs offered by a wide array of local and national brands. Writing opportunities listed here range from screen writing to writing advertisements and marketing materials. WorkingNotWorking connects writers, editors, designers, illustrators, developers, animators, photographers, directors and producers with companies that want to hire them. It puts all of the cost of finding workers on the companies, allowing freelancers to earn 100% of the rates they set. Niche — Cover letters/dating profiles/product descriptions/resumes ServiceScape connects freelancers in writing, editing, translation and graphic design with people who need their help. The site’s clients are widely varied. They include students and academics looking for help with research papers; businesspeople needing proposals and projects written or edited; and writers of books, screenplays and other manuscripts. Freelancers set their own rates, which revolve around standard terms. For instance, editors, writers and translators set their rates by the page (defined as 300 English words or 600 Chinese characters). The site takes half the money you earn. So, you’ve got to factor ServiceScape’s steep fee into your rates. With Fiverr, creatives determine what to write, set their own prices and differentiate themselves with “pro” badges. Writers in this marketplace say they can earn six figures by simply creating a clear description of what they do. That can range from writing blog posts to writing or reviewing resumes, product descriptions, dating profiles and advertising copy. You explain what you do and set the price for your writing and/or editing “packages.” Kristof is the editor of SideHusl.com, an independent website that reviews moneymaking opportunities in the gig economy.