Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez tied the knot this weekend in Las Vegas, the “Marry Me” star announced Sunday in her newsletter. The celebrity power couple secured a marriage license in Clark County, Nev., on Saturday and wed around midnight Sunday. The wedding comes three months after the “Gone Girl” actor and the “Let’s Get Loud” singer got engaged for the second time. “We did it. Love is beautiful. Love is kind. And it turns out love is patient. Twenty years patient,” Lopez wrote in the latest edition of her “On the JLo” newsletter. “Exactly what we wanted. Last night we flew to Vegas, stood in line for a license with four other couples, all making the same journey to the wedding capital of the world. Behind us two men held hands and held each other. In front of us, a young couple who made the three-hour drive from Victorville on their daughter’s second birthday — all of us wanting the same thing — for the world to recognize us as partners and to declare our love to the world through the ancient and nearly universal symbol of marriage.” Affleck and Lopez were previously betrothed in the early 2000s before famously calling off their engagement and going their separate ways. Last spring, however, the former flames rekindled their romance for Bennifer 2.0. Affleck was formerly married to actor Jennifer Garner, while Lopez has three ex-husbands: singer Marc Anthony, actor Cris Judd and actor Ojani Noa. According to Lopez’s newsletter, the A-listers “barely made it to the little white wedding chapel by midnight,” but the venue “graciously” stayed open late to allow them to take photos in a pink Cadillac convertible allegedly once used by Elvis Presley. The ceremony was not officiated by Elvis, however, because “that cost extra and he was in bed.” Lopez also thanked the chapel for letting her change in the break room while Affleck got dressed in the restroom.  “With the best witnesses you could ever imagine, a dress from an old movie and jacket from Ben’s closet, we read our own vows in the little chapel and gave one another the rings we’ll wear for the rest of our lives,” Lopez continued. “It was the best possible wedding we could have imagined. One we dreamed of long ago and one made real (in the eyes of the state, Las Vegas, a pink convertible and one another) at very, very long last.” It’s worth noting that Lopez signed the newsletter update “Mrs. Jennifer Lynn Affleck,” and a summary of the marriage license — reviewed Sunday by The Times — indicates that Lopez will legally change her name to Jennifer Affleck. “When love is real, the only thing that matters in marriage is one another and the promise we make to love, care, understand, be patient, loving and good to one another. We had that. And so much more. Best night of our lives,” Lopez wrote. “They were right when they said, ‘all you need is love.’ We are so grateful to have that in abundance, a new wonderful family of five amazing children and a life that we have never had more reason to look forward to. Stick around long enough and maybe you’ll find the best moment of your life in a drive through in Las Vegas at twelve thirty in the morning in the tunnel of love ... with your kids and the one you’ll spend forever with. Love is a great thing, maybe the best of things — and worth waiting for.”