The Ukrainian military on Tuesday reported destroying a Russian ammunition depot in southern Ukraine, resulting in a massive explosion captured on social media, while authorities said the death toll from a weekend Russian strike in the country’s east had grown to 41. An overnight rocket strike targeted the depot in Russian-held Nova Kakhovka, the Ukrainian military’s southern command said. Nova Kakhovka is located about 35 miles east of the Black Sea port city of Kherson, which is also occupied by Russian forces. The precision of the strike suggested Ukrainian forces used U.S-supplied multiple-launch High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems, or HIMARS, to hit the area. Ukraine indicated in recent days that it might launch a counteroffensive to reclaim territory in the country’s south as Russia bombards the eastern Donbas region.    Russia’s Tass news agency offered a different account of the blast in Nova Kakhovka, saying a mineral fertilizer storage facility exploded, and that a market, hospital and houses were damaged. Some of the ingredients in fertilizer can be used to formulate explosives. A satellite photo taken Tuesday and analyzed by the Associated Press showed significant damage. A massive crater remained  precisely where a large warehouse-like structure once stood in the city. Ukraine now has eight of the HIMAR systems, a truck-mounted missile launcher with high accuracy, and Washington has promised to send another four. Elsewhere in Ukraine, Russian shelling over the past 24 hours killed at least 16 civilians and wounded 48 more, Ukraine’s presidential office said in its Tuesday morning update. Cities and towns in five southeast regions came under Russian fire, the office said. Nine civilians were killed and two more wounded in Donetsk province, which makes up half of the eastern Donbas region. Russian rocket attacks targeted the cities of Slovyansk and Toretsk, where a kindergarten was hit, the presidential office said.  The British military said Tuesday that Russia is continuing to make “small, incremental gains” in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region, where heavy fighting led the province’s governor last week to urge its 350,000 remaining residents to move to safer places in western Ukraine. In raising the death toll from the Russian rocket attack on a Donetsk apartment building Saturday, the emergency services agency said four more bodies were found and nine people were rescued from the rubble of the building in Chasiv Yar. Yet many in the Donbas, a fertile industrial region in eastern Ukraine made up of Donetsk and Luhansk provinces, refuse — or are unable — to flee, despite scores of civilians being killed and wounded each week.  In Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city, and its surrounding region, Russian strikes hit residential buildings, killing four civilians and wounding nine, Ukrainian officials said. “The Russians continue their tactics of intimidating the peaceful population of the Kharkiv region,” Kharkiv Gov. Oleh Sinegubov wrote Tuesday on Telegram. Ukrainian authorities also said that Russian fire struck the southern city of Mykolaiv on Tuesday morning, hitting residential buildings. Twelve people were wounded as a result of the shelling, with some of the rockets hitting two medical facilities, regional Gov. Vitaliy Kim said on Telegram. Air-raid sirens sounded early Tuesday morning in the western city of Lviv — the first daytime sirens there in over a week — and other areas of Ukraine as Russian forces continued to make advances. In Luhansk, “fighting continues near the villages” on the administrative border with neighboring Donetsk, Luhansk Gov. Serhiy Haidai said Tuesday. “The Russian army burns down everything in its way. The artillery barrage doesn’t stop and sometimes continues for four to six hours on end,” Haidai said. The British Defense Ministry’s intelligence briefing said Russia had seized the Ukrainian town of Hryhorivka and continued to push toward the Donetsk cities of Kramatorsk and Slovyansk. “Russian forces are likely maintaining military pressure on Ukrainian forces whilst regrouping and reconstituting for further offensives in the near future,” the intelligence briefing said. However, Russia may be relying more heavily on private forces, like the Wagner mercenary group, to avoid a general mobilization, the British said. Western officials have accused Wagner of using mercenaries to fight in Africa and elsewhere. The Kremlin said Russian President Vladimir Putin would visit Iran  next Tuesday to attend a trilateral meeting with the leaders of Iran and Turkey, a format for Syria-related talks. U.S. national security advisor Jake Sullivan told reporters Monday that Russia was seeking hundreds of surveillance drones from Iran, including weapons-capable ones, for use in Ukraine. Russian and Turkish military representatives also plan to meet in Istanbul on Wednesday to discuss the transportation of Ukrainian grain through the Black Sea, a Russian Foreign Ministry official said.  Pyotr Ilyichyov, head of the ministry’s department for international organizations, told Russian news agency Interfax that “representatives of Ukraine, as well as U.N. [officials] in the role of observers,” are expected to take part in the talks. Ilyichyov reiterated that Moscow was ready “to assist in ensuring the navigation of foreign commercial ships for the export of Ukrainian grain.” At a meeting with his European Union counterparts in Prague, German Justice Minister Marco Buschmann said that investigating war crimes in Ukraine would likely take “many years” but he was confident they ultimately will be successful. He said there will probably be “hundreds of thousands, maybe even millions of pieces of evidence that have to be sifted through, documented and evaluated.” The German federal prosecutor’s office said in early March that it had started looking into possible war crimes committed by Russian forces in Ukraine.