A 22-year-old man identified as a person of interest in a deadly shooting at a July Fourth parade in suburban Chicago has been taken into custody, authorities say. Highland Park Police Chief Lou Jogmen said Monday evening that an officer briefly chased Robert E. Crimo III as he drove about five miles north of where the shooting occurred. Crimo pulled over and was taken into custody. Police declined to immediately identify Crimo as a suspect and said that identifying him as a person of interest, sharing his name and releasing other information was a serious step.  The shooting killed at least six people, wounded 30 and sent hundreds of marchers, parents with strollers and children on bicycles fleeing in terror, police said. The  shooter had apparently fired from a concealed spot on a rooftop. Jogmen said Monday afternoon that police identified Crimo as a person of interest and cautioned that he should be considered armed and dangerous. Police declined to answer questions about how they identified him. Authorities described his car as a silver Honda Fit with an Illinois license plate DM 80653. Police Commander Chris O’Neill, the incident commander on scene, urged people to shelter in place as authorities searched for the shooter. The July Fourth shooting was just the latest to shatter  a ritual of American life. Schools, churches, grocery stores and now community parades have become killing grounds in recent months. Mayor Nancy Rotering said the violence “has shaken us to our core.” “On a day that we came together to celebrate community and freedom, we are instead mourning the tragic loss of life and struggling with the terror that was brought upon us,” she said. The shooting occurred at a spot on the parade route where many residents had staked out prime viewing points early in the day. Dozens of bullets sent hundreds of paradegoers fleeing, some of them bloodied. They left a trail of abandoned items: a half-eaten bag of potato chips; a box of chocolate cookies spilled onto the grass; a child’s Chicago Cubs cap.  Lake County Major Crime Task Force spokesman Christopher Covelli said at a news conference that several  victims died at the scene and one died at a hospital. Police have not released details about the victims or wounded. Lake County Coroner Jennifer Banek said the five people killed at the parade were adults and that she doesn’t have information on the sixth victim, who died at a hospital. Roberto Velasco, Mexico’s director for North American affairs, said Monday on Twitter that one Mexican national was killed in Highland Park and that two other Mexicans were wounded. Dr. Brigham Temple, medical director of emergency preparedness for NorthShore University Health Center, said the Highland Park hospital received 26 patients after the attack and all but one had gunshot wounds. Their ages ranged from 8 to 85, and Temple estimated that four or five patients were children. He said 19 were treated and discharged. Others were transferred to other hospitals; two patients in stable condition remained at the Highland Park hospital. Authorities said the shooter opened fire around 10:15 a.m., when the parade was about three-quarters through. Covelli said at a news conference that the gunman apparently used a “high-powered rifle” to fire from a spot atop a building where he was “very difficult to see.” He said the rifle was recovered at the scene. “Very random, very intentional and a very sad day,” Covelli said. President  Biden last month signed the widest-ranging gun violence bill passed by Congress in decades, a compromise that showed  both progress on a long-intractable issue and the deep-seated partisan divide. Biden on Monday said he and First Lady Jill Biden were “shocked by the senseless gun violence that has yet again brought grief to an American community on this Independence Day.” He said he had “surged federal law enforcement to assist in the urgent search for the shooter, who remains at large at this time.” Several nearby cities canceled events including parades and fireworks, some noting that the Highland Park shooter was still at large. Evanston, Deerfield, Skokie, Waukegan and Glencoe called off events. The Chicago White Sox said on Twitter that a planned post-game fireworks show has been canceled. “You have a tragic mass act of violence that was random here today at a community event where people were gathered to celebrate, and the offender has not been apprehended thus far,” said Covelli, the crime task force spokesman. “So, could this happen again? We don’t know what his intentions are at this point, so certainly we’re not sure of that.”  More than 100 law enforcement officers were called to the parade scene or dispatched to find the  shooter. Hours after the attack, authorities searched an office building near  the parade route. Nearby, armed FBI agents in camouflage escorted a family with two small girls across Central Street. The children looked frightened as their mother attempted to reassure them that the agents leading and flanking them would protect them.  “Don’t worry, you’re safe now,” she told them. “These guys will protect you.”  Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker said in a statement: “There are no words for the kind of monster who lies in wait and fires into a crowd of families with children celebrating a holiday with their community.” Gina Troiani and her son were lined up with his daycare class ready to walk onto the parade route when she heard a sound that she believed was fireworks — until she heard people yell about a shooter. “We just start running in the opposite direction,” she told The Associated Press. Her 5-year-old son was riding his bike, decorated with red and blue curled ribbons. He and other children in the group held small American flags. The city said on its website that the festivities were to include a children’s bike and pet parade. Troiani said she pushed her son’s bike, running through the neighborhood to get back to their car. In a video that Troiani recorded on her phone, some kids are startled at the loud noise and they scramble to the side of the road as a siren wails nearby. “It was just sort of chaos,” she said. “There were people that got separated from their families, looking for them. Others just dropped their wagons, grabbed their kids and started running.” Debbie Glickman, a Highland Park resident, said she was on a parade float with co-workers and that the group was preparing to turn onto the main route when she saw people running from the area. “People started saying: ‘There’s a shooter, there’s a shooter, there’s a shooter,’” Glickman told the Associated Press. “So we just ran. We just ran. It’s like mass chaos down there.” She didn’t hear noises or see anyone who appeared to be injured. “I’m so freaked out,” she said. “It’s just so sad.”