The governor of the last remaining eastern province partly under Ukraine’s control urged his more than 350,000 residents to flee as Russia escalated its offensive and air alerts were issued across nearly the entire country. Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko said that getting people out of Donetsk province is necessary to save lives and to enable the Ukrainian army to better defend towns from the Russian advance. “The destiny of the whole country will be decided by the Donetsk region,” Kyrylenko told reporters in Kramatorsk, the province’s administrative center and home to the Ukrainian military’s regional headquarters. “Once there are less people, we will be able to concentrate more on our enemy and perform our main tasks,” Kyrylenko said. The governor’s call for residents to leave appeared to represent one of the biggest suggested evacuations of the war, although it’s unclear whether people will be willing and safely able to flee. According to the U.N. refugee agency, more than 7.1 million Ukrainians are estimated to be displaced within Ukraine, and more than 4.8 million refugees left the country since Russia’s invasion started Feb. 24. Ukrainian President  Volodymyr Zelensky said air alerts were issued Tuesday night in nearly all of the country, in many places after a long period of relative calm during which people searched for an explanation. “You should not look for logic in the actions of terrorists,” Zelensky said in his nightly video address. “The Russian army does not take any breaks. It has one task — to take people’s lives, to intimidate people — so that even a few days without an air alarm already feel like part of the terror.” Much of the military activity appeared concentrated in Ukraine’s east. The Kramatorsk governor said that because they house critical infrastructure such as water filtration plants, Russia’s main targets are now his city and a city 10 miles to the north, Slovyansk. Kyrylenko described the shelling as “very chaotic” without “a specific target ... only to destroy civilian infrastructure and residential areas.”  Slovyansk also came under sustained bombardment Tuesday. Mayor  Vadym Lyakh said on Facebook that “massive shelling” pummeled Slovyansk, which had a population of about 107,000 before Russia invaded Ukraine. The mayor, who urged residents hours earlier to evacuate, advised them to take cover in shelters. At least one person was killed and another seven wounded Tuesday, Lyakh said. He said the city’s central market and several districts came under attack, adding that authorities were assessing the extent of the damage. The barrage targeting Slovyansk indicated that Russian forces were advancing farther into Ukraine’s Donbas region, a mostly Russian-speaking industrial area where the country’s most experienced soldiers are concentrated. Slovyansk has previously taken rocket and artillery fire during Russia’s war in Ukraine, but the bombardment picked up in recent days after Moscow took the last major city in neighboring Luhansk province, Lyakh said. “It’s important to evacuate as many people as possible,” he warned Tuesday morning, adding that shelling damaged 40 houses on Monday. The Ukrainian military withdrew its troops Sunday from the city of Lysychansk to keep them from being surrounded. Russia’s defense minister and Putin said the city’s subsequent capture put Moscow in control of all of Luhansk, one of two provinces that make up the Donbas, but the regional governor said Tuesday that fighting was continuing on Lysychansk‘s outskirts. He said Russian forces were moving weaponry to Donetsk.  The question now is whether Russia can muster enough strength to complete its seizure of the Donbas by taking Donetsk province too. Putin acknowledged Monday that Russian troops who fought in Luhansk need to “take some rest and beef up their combat capability.” Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Tuesday that Moscow’s main priorities are “preserving the lives and health” of the troops, as well as “excluding the threat to the security of civilians.”  When Putin ordered the invasion of Ukraine more than four months ago, his stated goals were defending the people of the Donbas against Kyiv’s alleged aggression, and the “demilitarization” and  “denazification”of Ukraine. Pro-Russia separatists have fought Ukrainian forces and controlled much of the Donbas for eight years. Before the invasion this year, Putin recognized the independence of the two self-proclaimed separatist republics in the region. He also sought to portray the tactics of Ukrainian forces and the government as akin to Nazi Germany’s, claims for which no evidence has emerged. The General Staff of the Ukrainian military said Russian forces also shelled several Donetsk towns and villages around Slovyansk in the last day but were repelled as they tried to advance toward a town about 12 miles to the city’s north. South of the city, Russian forces were trying to push toward two more towns and shelling areas near Kramatorsk. Meanwhile, Moscow-installed officials in Ukraine’s southern Kherson region on Tuesday announced the formation of a new regional government, with a former Russian official at the helm. Sergei Yeliseyev, the head of the new Moscow-backed government in Kherson, is a former deputy prime minister of Russia’s western exclave of Kaliningrad and also used to work at Russia’s Federal Security Service, or the FSB, according to media reports. It wasn’t immediately clear what would become of the “military-civic administration” the Kremlin installed earlier. The administration’s head, Vladimir Saldo, said in a Telegram statement that the new government was “not a temporary, not a military, not some kind of interim administration, but a proper governing body.” “The fact that not just Kherson residents, but Russian officials too are part of this government speaks clearly about the direction the Kherson region is headed in the future,” he said. “This direction is to Russia.” Kherson’s Russia-installed administration previously stated plans for the region to become part of Russia, either through a referendum or other means. There was no immediate comment from Ukrainian officials.