In the Marvel universe, the Infinity Stones — six gems whose unique properties give the owner control over time, space, reality, the mind, power and the soul — are priceless. In our universe, though, it turns out you can measure the Stones’ value: over $25 million. Unveiled on Friday at Comic-Con by “Shark Tank” investor, FUBU founder and Emmy nominee Daymond John, Marvel Entertainment and East Continental Gems’ collection of one-of-a-kind gems  totals more than 150 carats. Paul Gitter, senior vice president of Marvel Consumer Products, explained the rationale behind the cush collab in a statement. “Fans and collectors are a very important consumer for Marvel, since they truly live the Marvel lifestyle every day and are always seeking to connect with the brand in new and unique ways.” Los Angeles-based Darren Romanelli, a.k.a. DRx, is the creative director behind the look of the gems, while Gentle Giant Ltd. had a hand in creating the Infinity Gauntlet that the gems are displayed in. In the comics, the stones (previously called gems) were first introduced with the Soul Gem’s appearance in “Marvel Premiere” No. 1 (April 1972). After the others followed, all of the gems first appeared together in “Avengers Annual” No. 7 (1977). Each stone from the East Continental Gems collection not only corresponds to one of the fictional Infinity Stones but also comes from a different family of earthly precious gems:  “As a fourth-generation jeweler and fan, I am honored that Marvel entrusted us with the monumental task of curating the Infinity Gem Collection for our universe,” Adam Mirzoeff, vice president of East Continental Gems, said in a statement. The company will also be issuing a limited-edition Reality Stone in September as part of a future collection. John, an avowed Marvel fan, wrote in an email that “it was an honor to be a part of the Infinity Gem Collection reveal. This collection and the partnership between Marvel and East Continental Gems is the perfect example of how strategic partnerships can lead to the types of unique and innovative ideas that make waves in an industry. I know Marvel fans are going to go crazy over this collection.” No word yet on the potential MCU/Comic-Con/heist movie crossover event.