Russian shelling pounded a densely populated area in Ukraine’s second-largest city Thursday, killing at least three people and injuring at least  23 with a barrage that struck a mosque, a medical facility and a shopping area, according to officials and witnesses at the scene. Police in the northeast city of Kharkiv said cluster bombs hit Barabashovo Market, a public bazaar where Associated Press journalists saw a woman crying over her  husband’s body. Local officials said the shelling also struck a bus stop, a gym and a residential building. The bombardment came after Russia on Wednesday reiterated its plans to seize territories beyond eastern Ukraine, where the Russian military has spent months trying to conquer Ukraine’s Donbas region, which is south of Kharkiv. Ukrainian officials recently aired their plans to try to recapture Russian-occupied areas near the country’s southern Black Sea coast. Kharkiv Mayor Igor Terekhov said the attacks early Thursday targeted one of the most crowded areas of the city, which had a prewar population of about 1.4 million. “The Russian army is randomly shelling Kharkiv, peaceful residential areas — civilians are being killed,” Terekhov said. “Be careful!” At the market, the desperate screams of Sabina Pogorelets pierced the air as she begged Ukrainian police to let her embrace her husband, Adam, whose body was lying partly covered with cloth next to a small stall. A bloody wound could be seen on his head as police officers gently pulled his wife away so that medical workers could take away his body. “Please! I need to hold his hand!” Pogorelets cried. Nearby, a man hugged his small daughter as he and other visitors stood in shock. Emergency teams treated at least two of the wounded in nearby ambulances.  “People started working little by little. They came out to sell things, and residents came here to buy things,” said Volodymyr Tymoshko, head of the National Police in the Kharkiv region. “And exactly this place was hit by Uragan rockets with cluster bombs to maximize the damage to people.” The  claim that cluster bombs hit Barabashovo Market could not be independently confirmed. The AP journalists at the scene shortly after the attack reported seeing burned-out cars and a bus pierced by shrapnel.  The Kharkiv region’s governor, Oleh Sinegubov, said four people were in grave condition and a child was among those wounded in the shelling. Russian forces also have shelled wheat fields in the area, setting them on fire, he said. Elsewhere, Russian forces shelled the southern city of Mykolaiv overnight as well as the eastern cities of Kramatorsk and Kostiantynivka, where two schools were destroyed after a civilian was killed Wednesday, Ukrainian officials said. As of 8 a.m. Thursday, Russian shelling of cities across Ukraine killed at least five people and wounded at least 17 more in the previous 24 hours, Ukraine’s presidential office reported. The scattered attacks illustrate broader war aims beyond Russia’s previously declared focus on the Donbas region’s Donetsk and Luhansk provinces, where front-line battles mostly unfolded in recent weeks. When it invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, Russia quickly seized territory but withdrew from the capital region around Kyiv and Ukraine’s north after about six weeks to concentrate on seizing Donetsk and Luhansk, which pro-Moscow separatists have partly controlled since 2014. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told state-controlled RT television and the RIA Novosti news agency in an interview published Wednesday that Russia plans to retain control over more territory, including the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions in the south. Moscow’s current strategy also envisions making gains elsewhere, Lavrov said. His comments indicated that the war could flare up rather than wind down in the weeks to come. With Western countries providing Ukraine with longer-range weapons, Lavrov said Russia’s “geographical tasks will be pushed even further from the current line because we cannot allow the part of Ukraine under control of [Ukrainian President Volodymyr] Zelensky, or whoever comes to succeed him, to have weapons that will pose a direct threat to our territory and the territories of those republics that have declared their independence.” Analysts from the Institute for the Study of War, a think tank based in Washington, said they believed that the current Russian offensive in Donetsk could result in the capture of the cities of Slovyansk or Bakhmut, though Moscow’s troops have have not yet made “meaningful” progress. The think tank’s latest analysis also noted that “Russian troops are now struggling to move across relatively sparsely settled and open terrain. They will encounter terrain much more conducive to the Ukrainian defenders,” the institute’s most recent analysis said. The General Staff of Ukraine’s military reported Thursday that Russian forces attempted to storm the Vuhlehirska power station in the Donetsk region, but “Ukrainian defenders made the enemy resort to fleeing.” Ukraine forces also struck a key bridge on the Dnieper River on Wednesday for the second time in two days, apparently trying to loosen Russia’s grip on the southern Kherson region. “Russia is prioritizing the capture of critical national infrastructure, such as power plants,” the British Defense Ministry said Thursday. “However, it is probably also attempting to break through at Vuhlehirska, as part of its efforts to regain momentum on the southern pincer of its advance” toward the key cities of Kramatorsk and Slovyansk. Fighting also persists in the Luhansk region, next to Donetsk, but it has not been fully captured by the Russian military, Gov. Serhiy Haidai said.