Ricky Martin is speaking out hours after his nephew withdrew claims that he was harassed by the 50-year-old singer after calling off their alleged affair. After hearing the allegations against him had been dropped, the Latin pop artist expressed his relief in a video obtained by TMZ. “I’m in front of the cameras today because I really need to talk in order to start my healing process,” he said, adding that he hadn’t been allowed to speak publicly until the case was resolved. “I’m glad these claims were proven to be false, but I’m going to tell you the truth, it has been so painful — it has been devastating for me, for my family, for my friends. I don’t wish this upon anybody. “To the person who was claiming this nonsense, I wish him the best, and I wish he finds the help so he can start a new life filled with love and truth and joy, and he doesn’t hurt anyone else,” he said, addressing his 21-year-old nephew. “Now, my priority is to heal ... with music. I cannot wait to be back on stage. I can’t wait to be back in front of the cameras and entertain, which is what I do best.”  Martin’s nephew had  claimed the two ended  a romantic relationship earlier this year but Martin would not leave him alone and had loitered near his house “at least three times.” He said he “feared for his safety,” leading a Puerto Rican judge on July 1 to issue a temporary restraining order against Martin. Police spokesman Axel Valencia told the Associated Press that authorities attempted to serve Martin the order near his Puerto Rico home in the north coastal town of Dorado but weren’t “able to find him” as of Saturday.  According to Valencia, the person who entered the order opted to bypass a police report — which might have enabled authorities to file charges against Martin — and instead deliver the request directly to the court. The restraining order was removed after Martin’s nephew withdrew his claim. Martin’s attorneys Joaquín Monserrate-Matienzo, Carmelo Dávila and Harry Massanet Pastrana released a joint statement Thursday morning celebrating the decision. “Just as we had anticipated, the temporary protection order was not extended by the Court,”  read the statement, which Martin posted on his social media accounts with the caption “Truth prevails.” “The accuser confirmed to the court that his decision to dismiss the matter was his alone, without any outside influence or pressure, and the accuser confirmed he was satisfied with his legal representation in the matter. “The request came from the accuser asking to dismiss the case,” it continued. “This was never anything more than a troubled individual making false allegations with absolutely nothing to substantiate them. We are glad that our client saw justice done and can now move forward with his life and his career.” Martin’s nephew has not spoken publicly. The “Livin’ La Vida Loca” singer had  denied the claims early this month on Twitter in a message shared in both English and Spanish. “The protection order entered against me is based on completely false allegations, so I will respond through the judicial process with the facts and the dignity that characterize me,” Martin wrote. “Because it is an ongoing legal matter, I cannot make detailed statements at this time. I am grateful for the countless messages of solidarity, and I receive them with all my heart.” Martin is set to play back-to-back shows at the Hollywood Bowl this weekend, with his publicist confirming to The Times this week that Friday and Saturday’s shows will “absolutely” still go on. Times staff writer Christi Carras contributed to this report.