Firefighters and dive teams recovered  a body from  an artificial lake outside SoFi Stadium on Wednesday after receiving reports of a person jumping into the water, according to KTTV-TV Channel 11.  Emergency crews were called to the stadium in  Inglewood just after 6 a.m. and began a  water rescue at Lake Park, according to the Los Angeles County Fire Department. The Inglewood Police Department told  KTTV  that dive teams recovered a body from the water, and media outlets reported that what appeared to be   a body was wheeled away from the scene. KTTV  reported that authorities have surveillance footage of a person jumping into the lake and not coming out. News video  Wednesday morning showed emergency crews setting up around the lake  and a dive team preparing to search the area. The Inglewood Police Department did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Lake Park sits south of the stadium and the 5.5-acre lake holds approximately 11 million gallons of water, according to the stadium developers. Both the Rams and Chargers call SoFi Stadium home. The 70,240-seat stadium lies next to the Forum, and construction broke ground in November 2016. SoFi Stadium cost at least $5 billion and has been called the most expensive stadium built in the U.S. The stadium was the site of multiple  deaths during its construction. Subcontractor Juan Becerra, 37, of Brownsville, Texas, fell to his death on June 5, 2020, after he stepped on an unsupported area of the roof that was under construction. About a month later, construction worker Simon Fite, 32, of  Compton, died on July 7, 2020. An  autopsy report said Fite died from “cocaine intoxication” and heat exhaustion.  On Sept 25, 2020, two weeks  after opening day, 25-year-old Sergio Rojo was found dead with a stab wound to his neck on the stadium grounds. An autopsy report said Rojo died in an accident  from  “sharp force injury.”  Two knives and a blade were found near his body, which  was discovered  underneath a trailer. Rojo was believed to be homeless. On Dec. 16 of that year, construction worker Luis Escobar, 34,  was fatally pinned by a metal beam in  an accident at the stadium involving a crane, according to a California Division of Occupational Safety and Health  spokesman.  The Rams hosted the New York Jets  four days later. This is a breaking story and will be updated as additional information becomes available. Times staff writer Nathan Fenno contributed to this report.