All-Star center fielder Mike Trout, originally in the Angels’ starting lineup for Saturday’s game against the Dodgers, was scratched shortly before the first pitch because of upper-back spasms — the fourth consecutive game he has missed since he exited Tuesday’s game against the Houston Astros because of the injury. After the Angels’ 7-1 loss to the Dodgers, Trout said he hadn’t decided if he’ll play in the All-Star Game on Tuesday at Dodger Stadium. Trout, who has only six RBIs and one multi-hit game since June 28, said Saturday night he’d sleep on it before making a decision. Interim manager Phil Nevin said he was called to the batting cages about 15-20 minutes before the game and was told Trout’s back issue flared up again and that he would be unavailable to play. “Just swinging in the cage before the game and didn’t feel right,” Trout said. “So smart thing was just to not play. I didn’t want it to get worse.” The Angels have not given up on this season, but their remaining 70 games will have to include plenty of wins if they hope to get back into the playoff picture. “I do believe these guys still think we can make a run,”  Nevin said before Saturday’s Freeway Series finale at Angel Stadium. “I mean, there’s teams that have made runs lately and are right in the thick of it. There’s still time for that. “That’s the discussions they have amongst themselves, when we have our get-togethers, whether it’s an advanced meeting or a hitters meeting or pitchers meeting. They’re the ones that talk about that, and I echo those thoughts and I will again before they leave tonight. We got a nice long break, and I think it’d be good for everybody.” Waiting for the Angels on the other side of the All-Star break will be the 56-37 Atlanta Braves, who are in second place in the National League East and hold the first NL wild-card spot. Shohei Ohtani is scheduled to be the Angels’ starting pitcher in the opener of that three-game series Friday in Atlanta. Nevin said the team plans to have a workout and discuss their approach to the second half of the season before leaving for Atlanta.  “I mean, doesn’t get easier, going up playing another really good team,” Nevin said after the game. “All the teams — it’s the major leagues, you know what you’re going up against.” After Saturday’s loss, the Angels were 39-53, 21 games out of first place in the American League West and 10 games behind in the wild-card chase. In their last 10 games before Saturday, they were 2-8, with those two victories coming largely thanks to stellar pitching by Ohtani. But the Angels’ offense has been inconsistent. On Saturday, they went 0 for 6 with runners in scoring position and left seven on base. Their lone run came on a solo homer from Brandon Marsh, who also got the Angels their only run Friday on a home run. Nevin, since he was promoted to interim manager after Joe Maddon was fired in early June, has tried to spark the offense, adjusting his leadoff batters a few times. On Saturday, Nevin moved Luis Rengifo, the team’s most consistent hitter over the last month, to the leadoff spot. Rengifo delivered, going 2 for 4 at the plate. Time will tell whether the second half will result in something positive for the Angels. For now, Nevin’s advice for his team as it heads into the break was to “go home and relax, rinse, come back ready to go.”  Rengifo has been the regular bright spot in the middle of the Angels’ lineup over the last 21 games. On Friday night, he broke up Clayton Kershaw’s no-hit bid against the Angels by hitting a double to left field to lead off the bottom of the eighth inning. “Rengifo put a good swing on that one,” Kershaw said after that game, which the Dodgers won 9-1. Rengifo also got the team’s first hit Saturday in the first inning on a ground ball to third baseman Max Muncy — Muncy slipped while trying to field the ball and could not complete the throw to first base. Rengifo has at least one hit in all but two of his last 21 games, which earned him the right, according to Nevin, to bat leadoff and get his first start at third base Saturday. Rengifo had been in a slump through most of June, collecting just seven hits with a .117 batting average and a .359 on-base-plus-slugging percentage in 18 games between June 2 and June 21. Since then, his statistics have improved. From June 22 to July 15 (20 games), Rengifo has batted .333 with an .866 OPS. For Nevin, Rengifo’s improved performance has been the result of swinging the bat with authority and understanding game situations. For hitting coach Jeremy Reed, the difference has been letting Rengifo be himself and have fun while also having a solid routine. For Rengifo, it’s just about doing what works and continuing to do that every game. “Be ready every single time I go to the box and try to do my best every single time,” he said before Saturday’s game. Angels starting pitcher Michael Lorenzen, who is on the injured list because of a right shoulder strain, said he plans to continue throwing during the All-Star break to keep his recovery process moving forward. It won’t be much of a break, he said, because his training will keep him busy. The last update on his return, from Nevin, suggested that Lorenzen could return not long after the break.