Russia-backed separatists claimed to have captured a railway hub in east Ukraine as Moscow’s forces tried to gain more ground Friday by pounding another Ukrainian-held area where authorities say 1,500 people have died since the start of the war. With Russia’s offensive in Ukraine’s industrial Donbas region showing incremental progress, Ukrainian officials characterized the battle there in grave terms and renewed their appeals for more sophisticated Western-supplied weaponry. Without that, Ukraine’s foreign minister warned,  Ukrainian forces would not be able to stop Russia’s advance on the east. Some European leaders sought dialogue with Russian President Vladimir Putin on ending a war now in its 93rd day, but Britain’s top diplomat worked to rally the West’s continued support for Ukraine. “There should be no talk of cease-fires or appeasing Putin. We need to make sure that Ukraine wins and that Russia withdraws and that we never see this type of Russian aggression again,” British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said. But in Ukraine’s east, Russia has the upper hand. The fighting Friday focused on two key cities: Severodonetsk and nearby Lysychansk. They are the last areas under Ukrainian control in Luhansk, one of two provinces that make up the Donbas and where Moscow-backed separatists have controlled some territory for eight years. “There are battles on the outskirts of the city. Massive artillery shelling does not stop, day and night,” Severodonetsk Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk told the Associated Press. “The city is being systematically destroyed — 90% of the buildings in the city are damaged.” An assault was underway in the city’s northeastern quarter, where Russian reconnaissance and sabotage groups tried to capture the Mir Hotel and the area around it Friday, Stryuk said.  At least 1,500 people have died in Severodonetsk since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, he said. The figure includes people killed by shelling or in fires caused by Russian missile strikes, as well as those who died from shrapnel wounds, untreated diseases or a lack of medicine or were trapped under rubble. “For a month and a half, because of the shelling, it has not been possible to provide people with full-fledged medical care,” Stryuk said. About 12,000 to 13,000 people remain in the city — down from a prewar population of about 100,000, he said. Those remaining are huddled in shelters and largely cut off from the rest of Ukraine.  In Donetsk, the Donbas’ other province, the Russia-backed rebels said Friday that they had taken control of Lyman, a large railway hub north of two more key cities that remain under Ukrainian control. Ukrainian presidential advisor Oleksiy Arestovich acknowledged Thursday night that “we lost Lyman.” However, a Ukrainian Defense Ministry spokesperson said Friday that its soldiers countered Russian attempts to push them completely out of the city. Ukrainian analysts said Russian forces have taken advantage of delays in Western arms shipments to step up their offensive in the east and secure territory before Ukraine’s fighters can drive them back. Russia brought in an additional 10 to 12 battalion tactical groups to the zone, military analyst Oleh Zhdanov said. Throwing so much firepower at the offensive could also backfire by seriously depleting Russia’s arsenal. Echoing an assessment by the British Defense Ministry, Zhdanov said Russia was deploying 50-year-old T-62 tanks, “which means that the second army of the world has run out of modernized equipment.” Mykola Sunhurovskyi, an analyst at Kyiv’s Razumkov Center, said it was now “in Putin’s interests to solidify the situation that has developed today at the front, biting off from Ukraine what there is still strength for, and secure this line of contact as a position in [eventual] negotiations.”  With Ukraine’s hopes of stopping the Russian advance fading, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba pleaded with Western nations to provide his country with more weapons so that its defenders were equipped to push Russian forces back. “We need heavy weapons,” Kuleba said in a video posted on Twitter on Thursday night. “The only position where Russia is better than us, it’s the amount of heavy weapons they have. Without artillery, without multiple launch rocket systems, we won’t be able to push them back.” In his nightly address to the nation, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky had harsh words for the European Union, whose 27 member nations have not been able to come to an agreement on a sixth round of sanctions, including an embargo on Russian oil, which has been opposed primarily by Hungary. “Of course, I am grateful to our friends who are promoting new sanctions,” Zelensky said. “But where did those who block the sixth package get so much power? Why are they still allowed to have so much power, including in intra-European procedures?” The Ukrainian leader said Russia’s offensive in the Donbas could leave its communities in ashes and uninhabitable. He accused Moscow of pursuing “an obvious policy of genocide” through mass deportations and killings of civilians. On Thursday, Russian shelling of Kharkiv, a northeastern city that is Ukraine’s second-largest, killed nine people, including a father and his 5-month-old baby, Zelensky said. Associated Press reporters saw the bodies of at least two dead men and four wounded at a central subway station, where the victims were taken as shelling continued outside. Zelensky also spoke bluntly about what lies at stake in the battle for eastern Ukraine. “Pressure on Russia is literally a matter of saving lives,” he said. “And every day of delay, weakness, various disputes or proposals to ‘appease’ the aggressor at the expense of the victim [means] new killed Ukrainians. And new threats to everyone on our continent.” To the north, neighboring Belarus announced Friday that it was sending troops toward the Ukrainian border, raising concerns in Ukraine’s military command. Russia used Belarus as a staging ground before it invaded Ukraine. Germany’s development minister traveled to Ukraine on Friday to pledge further civilian support and to discuss the country’s rebuilding. Austria’s chancellor, meanwhile, was set to talk to Russian President Vladimir Putin about possible prisoner exchanges. Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi spoke with Putin on Thursday but reported no breakthrough. “If you are asking me if there are openings for peace, the answer is no,” Draghi told reporters. Putin and Draghi’s conversation focused on the question of unblocking Ukrainian ports to allow grain to be delivered to countries that are suffering a food crisis and avoid the risk that the stores rot in port. Moscow pressed the West on Thursday to lift sanctions already imposed over the war, seeking to shift the blame for a growing global food crisis that has been worsened by Kyiv’s inability to ship millions of tons of grain and other agricultural products while under attack. Britain accused Russia of “trying to hold the world to ransom,” insisting that there would be no sanctions relief, and a top U.S. diplomat blasted the “sheer barbarity, sadistic cruelty and lawlessness” of the invasion.