A brush fire fueled by intense coastal winds roared into an upscale Laguna Niguel subdivision Wednesday evening as it ballooned to at least 150 acres, burning multiple homes and forcing many to flee. Cold winds coming from the Pacific Ocean pushed the Coastal fire up a rugged canyon, sending embers into homes and sparking spot fires in the Coronado Pointe area. Television footage showed a row of sprawling, red-tiled homes at the tip of the canyon on fire, with smoke coming from several other homes deeper in the neighborhood. Sara Nuss-Galles watched the fire grow from her ridgetop home on Via Estoril in Laguna Niguel for more than an hour Wednesday afternoon before deciding it was time to leave. Plumes of smoke choked the hillsides as ash fell across the city. “My clothes smell from the hour I spent in the house,” she said. “It’s just plumes of smoke. It’s very scary.”  Nuss-Galles and her husband, Arie Galles, grabbed a few personal items and their two cats, Pitzel and Ketzel, and drove to a friend’s home a few miles away. Along the way, they saw people parked along the sides of the roads, standing on the beds of their pickup trucks and in their trunks watching the fire.  Around 5:30 p.m., sheriff’s deputies went door to door in her neighborhood to tell people to evacuate. “It’s just awful,” she said. By around 7 p.m., hundreds of homes in Laguna Niguel had been evacuated. The blaze broke out in Aliso Canyon, near the South Orange County Wastewater Authority treatment plant. Firefighting vehicles raced south on Pacific Coast Highway, entering through the Ranch, a local country club and golf course. Authorities blocked off the street to other traffic and were also blocking off Nyes Place. The destruction underscored the year-round danger of fires in Southern California, even in cool conditions. Temperatures were in the mid-60s, and wind gusts topped 20 mph. At 5:51 p.m., Orange County Fire Authority officials tweeted that the fire had grown to an estimated 183 acres, but they downgraded the figure to 150 acres five minutes later. Television footage showed several homes on fire in the area. Orange County fire officials could not immediately be reached for information on how many homes were burning. KABC-TV Channel 7 reported that 13 homes had burned. Video from a KABC helicopter showed flames and heavy smoke moving up hillsides toward homes in the subdivision. Fire crews dropped fire retardant, marking a strip of ground just outside the subdivision red, the video showed. Two tankers were flying overhead dropping the fire retardant, KABC reported. A helicopter was also dropping water near the fire’s origin. Both the Laguna Beach and Orange County fire departments were on the scene. Aliso and Wood Canyons Wilderness Park was closed because of the fire, Orange County parks officials said around 3:15 p.m. As of 4:35 p.m., evacuation orders were in place for communities near Pacific Island Drive and Coronado Pointe, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Department. A voluntary evacuation warning was issued for the Balboa Nyes neighborhood, the city of Laguna Beach said. A temporary shelter has been opened at Crown Valley Community Center, 29751 Crown Valley Parkway, according to Laguna Niguel city officials. Those with questions were directed to call (949) 362-4300. A live map and information on all evacuation areas and centers can be found at ocsheriff.gov/coastalfire, officials said. Smoke was visible across Orange County. Times staff writer Hannah Fry and Daily Pilot staff writer Andrew Turner contributed to this report.