A classic ballet, a kid-friendly musical and an Oscar-winning 1946 drama make our short list of Southern California cultural offerings this Memorial Day weekend. Before you go, remember to call or check online for reservation requirements and COVID-19 protocols. ‘The Sleeping Beauty’Los Angeles Ballet launches a locally touring production of the Tchaikovsky favorite based on the classic fairytale. Redondo Beach Performing Arts Center, 1935 Manhattan Beach Blvd., Redondo Beach. 7:30 p.m. Saturday. $34 to $131; discounts available for students, children, seniors and active-duty military. Also in Westwood, June 3 and 4, and Glendale, June 11. losangelesballet.org ‘The Best Years of Our Lives’The Hollywood Legion Theater marks Memorial Day with a screening of director William Wyler’s multi-Oscar-winning 1946 drama about three World War II veterans readjusting to life in their shared hometown. Post 43, 2035 N. Highland Ave., Hollywood. 3 p.m. Monday. $15; free for veterans, active-duty military and their families. hollywoodlegiontheater.com ‘Journey Out of Darkness’L.A.-based Numi Opera salutes to Erich Wolfgang Korngold, Kurt Weill and other 20th century composers whose works were suppressed by the fascist regimes in their home countries in this one-night-only performance. The Broad Stage, Santa Monica College Performing Arts Center, 1310 11th St., Santa Monica. 7 p.m. Sunday. $35, $50. numiopera.org 30 Minute Musicals’ ‘Top Gun’Danger zone! The 1986 blockbuster starring Tom Cruise as a hotshot fighter pilot comes in for an LGBTQ-themed spoofing in this irreverent stage show for adults only. The Cavern Club at Casita Del Campo, 1920 Hyperion Ave., Silver Lake. 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday; also June 3 and 4. $20. brownpapertickets.com ‘The Kitchen Table Project: A Time to Gather’Invertigo Dance Theatre returns to live performance with a new, site-specific and interactive iteration of this project that began as a series of dance films, virtual experiences, etc., during the early days of the pandemic. Temple Israel of Hollywood, 7300 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood. 7:30 p.m. Thursday and Saturday. $30. arts.tioh.org  ‘Fancy Nancy’Chance Theater reprises its long-running hit production of this family-friendly musical based on the children’s books about a little girl with one very big personality. Bette Aitken Theater Arts Center, Cripe Stage, 5522 E. La Palma Ave., Anaheim. 5 p.m. Sunday; other dates through June 19. $24 to $30; discounts available for children, seniors, students and military. chancetheater.com 