Dylan Cease struck out 11 to match a career best and gave up just one hit in seven sparkling innings, propelling the Chicago White Sox to a 3-0 win over the Angels on Monday. Three-time AL MVP Mike Trout struck out in all four at-bats, three against Cease. The Angels star, who homered and doubled in a win Sunday to raise his OPS to a whopping 1.247, fanned against Liam Hendriks to end the game. Angels two-way start Shohei Ohtani didn’t start, a day after making an early exit because of groin tightness. The reigning AL MVP grounded out as a pinch-hitter in the eighth. The White Sox won for the third time in 12 games. Los Angeles has won seven of nine.  Cease (3-1) threw 64 of 93 pitches for strikes and walked none. Taylor Ward got the only hit against him, a leadoff double in the fourth. Cease’s previous 11-strikeout performance came on Aug. 29, 2021, against the Chicago Cubs. Kendall Graveman pitched the eighth and Hendriks recorded his fifth save in the combined two-hitter.  Tim Anderson and Luis Robert opened the White Sox first with hits off Patrick Sandoval (1-1) and an error by left fielder Jo Adell moved them into scoring position. AJ Pollock had an RBI grounder and Jake Burger had a sacrifice fly. Adam Engel hit an RBI double in the sixth. Ohtani precautions: Angels trainer Mike Frostad said Ohtani was “doing better this morning” and there were currently no plans for an MRI or to put him on the injured list. Manager Joe Maddon said Ohtani could pitch at Boston later in the week. “I hope so,” Maddon said. “We’re just going to wait a day or two to figure that out.” Option time: Each team optioned a pair of players to their Triple-A affiliates to get in compliance with the 26-man roster, which decreased from 28 on Monday after MLB added two temporary slots to make up for shortened spring training. Chicago sent INF Danny Mendick and LHP Anderson Severino to Charlotte. Mendick hit .250 with one homer and three RBIs in 10 games. Severino has a 6.14 ERA with nine strikeouts in six relief appearances. Los Angeles optioned RHP Elvis Peguero and RHP Andrew Wantz to Triple-A Salt Lake. Pegeuro had yet to appear for the Angels and is 2-0 with a 1.74 ERA in six minor league games. Wantz has a 6.00 ERA in three relief appearances. Injury updates: INF David Fletcher was rested Monday as he works back to full strength from a hip strain he suffered on April 11. Frostad said the issue could affect Fletcher throughout the season. “There’s going to be days where he needs some time off,” Frostad said. ... LHP José Quijada is “doing well” and has begun throwing again in Anaheim, according to Frostad. ... Maddon opted to rest 3B Anthony Rendon, but said he was feeling good. “To push him right now doesn’t seem like the right thing to do,” Maddon said. ... Frostad said RHP Griffin Canning (back) has more bullpen sessions this week as he rehabilitates from an aggravated back issue that prompted Los Angeles to put him on the 60-day IL on March 16. Up next for Angels: RHP Noah Syndergaard (2-0, 2.12 ERA) gets the call to open a three-game series at the Boston Red Sox on Tuesday.