SUNDAY Sexy singles take courtship cues from inhabitants of the animal kingdom in the new reality series “Love in the Jungle.” Anytime, Discovery+ It’s Mother’s Day, so don’t forget to call your mom and tell her to watch the new stand-up special “Christina P: Mom Genes.” Anytime, Netflix Fierce female competitors vie for the title of women’s champion on a special edition of “American Ninja Warrior.” 7 p.m. NBC Hi mom! “Saturday Night Live” celebrates moms everywhere with a new Mother’s Day collection of classic sketches. 9 p.m. NBC Professional matchmakers in the ATL ply their trade in the new reality series “Love Match Atlanta.” 10 p.m. Bravo MONDAY Jessica Biel plays a not-so-sweet suburban housewife in the five-night true crime miniseries “Candy.” Melanie Lynskey also stars. Anytime, Hulu; also Tuesday-Friday See which tune comes out on top in the season finale of “American Song Contest.” With hosts Kelly Clarkson and Snoop Dogg. 8 p.m. NBC Contestants get up in each other’s grills in new episodes of “BBQ Brawl.” With Bobby Flay. 9 p.m. Food Network Comic Ali Wong does a solid for an old college chum on a new “Celebrity IOU.” 9 p.m. HGTV A new “History’s Greatest Mysteries” revisits the infamous 1932 kidnapping of aviator Charles Lindbergh’s infant son. 9 p.m. History  A Black man who survived a carjacking attempt finds compassion for his young Black assailant in “When Claude Got Shot” on a new “Independent Lens.” 10 p.m. KOCE Put-upon British parents Paul and Ally (Martin Freeman, Daisy Haggard) are back in a third season of “Breeders.” 10 and 10:30 p.m. FX TUESDAY Hawaii-born Olympic swimmer and surfing legend Duke Kahanamoku is saluted on a new “American Masters.” Jason Momoa narrates. 9 p.m. KOCE One contestant will walk away with a pile of chef Geoffrey Zakarian’s cash on the season finale of “Big Restaurant Bet.” 10 p.m. Food Network “Beyond the Canvas,” the arts and culture series hosted by “PBS NewsHour’s” Amna Nawaz, returns with new episodes. 10:30 p.m. KOCE WEDNESDAY He’s the fertility doctor! He’s the sperm donor! He’s the fertility doctor and the sperm donor in the 2022 documentary “Our Father.” Anytime, Netflix British spies cook up a scheme to change the course of World War II in the 2022 thriller “Operation Mincemeat.” With Colin Firth and Matthew Macfadyen. Anytime, Netflix Teenage contestants take LARP-ing — live action role-playing — to the next level in a reboot of the 2014 fantasy-themed competition “The Quest.” Anytime, Disney+ Find out who sticks around and who bails on the season finale of “Married at First Sight.” 8 p.m. Lifetime Drinks will be thrown, trash talked, indictments handed down, etc., in another season of “The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills.” 9 p.m. Bravo It’s dinosaurs versus asteroid — advantage, asteroid — in the two-part episode “Dinosaur Apocalypse” on “Nova.” David Attenborough hosts. 9 and 10 p.m. KOCE THURSDAY A legendary stand-up comic and a Gen Z sitcom writer (Jean Smart, Hannah Einbinder) walk into a second season of the buddy comedy “Hacks.” Anytime, HBO Max A three-film salute to Anna May Wong gets underway with the pioneering Asian American actor and native Angeleno in the 1929 silent drama “Piccadilly.” 5 p.m. TCM Judge Lynn Toler from “Divorce Court” helps on-the-fence couples decide if they should “Commit or Quit” in this new reality series. 10 p.m. WE FRIDAY Your friendly neighborhood crazy rich Asians are back in Season 2 of the L.A.-set reality series “Bling Empire.” Anytime, Netflix Meet a different pair of breeders, eh, in the new Canadian-made sitcom “Children Ruin Everything.” Anytime, Roku Originals Is it a mythical sea monster … or a case of mass hysteria? Claire Danes and Tom Hiddleston investigate in the new Victorian-era mystery drama “The Essex Serpent.” Anytime, Apple TV+ A young girl with pyrokinetic powers heats things up in the new 2022 adaptation of the Stephen King terror tale “Firestarter.” With Zac Efron. Anytime, Peacock Olympic skier Lindsey Vonn and NASCAR’s Bubba Wallace are among the top-tier athletes profiled in new episodes of “Greatness Code.” Anytime, Apple TV+ Our favorite Canadian comedy troupe returns to crush your head in a reboot of the sketch series “The Kids in the Hall.” Anytime,  Prime Video Have you been injured in an accident? Call “The Lincoln Lawyer” in this new drama based on novelist Michael Connelly’s L.A.-set crime thrillers. Anytime, Netflix Not even 20 years in a coma can stop Rebel Wilson from finishing high school in the 2022 comedy “Senior Year.” With Alicia Silverstone. Anytime, Netflix “Sneakerella” gets her kicks in this new musical comedy based on the classic fairy tale. Anytime, Disney+ Do we need to spell it out? Jennifer Hudson portrays the Queen of Soul in the 2021 Aretha Franklin biopic “Respect.” With Forest Whitaker. 8 p.m. Epix Dr. Guralnik will see you now in all-new episodes of “Couples Therapy.” 8 and 8:30 p.m. Showtime Even a glimpse of stocking? Yes, “Anything Goes” in this classic Cole Porter musical on “Great Performances.” Sutton Foster stars. 9 p.m. KOCE Host Kardea Brown puts Black chefs through their paces in the new series “The Great Soul Food Cook-Off.” 10 p.m. OWN; also on Discovery+ The baddest man in the whole damn town is the “New York Ninja” in this 2021 reconstruction of an unfinished martial arts flick from 1984. 11 p.m. TCM SATURDAY Love means never having to say “Are we there yet?” in the new TV movie “Road Trip Romance.” 8 p.m. Hallmark Channel A fashion designer’s new assistant begins to wonder what became of her predecessors in the new TV movie “Fit to Kill.” 8 p.m. Lifetime Meet three Black power couples who do their moving and shaking inside the Beltway in the new reality-TV spinoff “Love & Marriage: DC.” 9 p.m. OWN