Members of the California Legislature will take the Memorial Day holiday weekend to recover from long sessions in Sacramento this week to conclude the first half of their legislative business for the year. The state Senate and Assembly are holding rare Friday floor sessions to finish their work on dozens of bills — in part, to ensure the Monday holiday doesn’t trigger a three-day recess that cuts into lawmakers’ per-diem salary supplements.  But Friday also marks the “house of origin” deadline, the date by which bills must clear their first legislative hurdles so that the process can begin all over again on the other side of the state Capitol. The legislative session ends on Aug. 31. More than 2,000 proposed laws have been introduced by legislators this year, as well as a few dozen ceremonial resolutions and a few constitutional amendments. Most have already failed to advance and even many of the bills that will now swap places in the Senate and Assembly won’t make it to Gov. Gavin Newsom‘s desk. At the halfway point, it’s worth a quick glance at some of the year’s more notable bills.  State Capitol watchers know to never underestimate the  effect of outside events and powerful politicians in getting big policy changes enacted into law. The last four weeks reshaped the Legislature’s focus for the year, a time span that began with the leak of a draft U.S. Supreme Court opinion that would upend abortion rights and stretched through Tuesday’s mass shooting at a Texas school, the nation’s third fatal shooting this month. Leaning on their overwhelming legislative majority — 31 of 40 state senators, 58 of 80 Assembly members — Democrats and Newsom have promised action on several bills to burnish the state’s liberal reputation on both topics.  Senate Bill 1375 would allow nurse practitioners to work independently of doctors in offering abortion services, a proposal that cleared the Senate on Wednesday. That same day, senators sent Senate Bill 1142 to the Assembly, an effort to create a fund for private donations that could cover abortion services, including those sought by women traveling from other states. A number of gun control bills were touted this week by Newsom and Democratic legislative leaders, with promises that some of them could become law before Jan. 1. The list includes Senate Bill 1327, a high-profile effort to give citizens the right to sue gun manufacturers, and Senate Bill 906, requiring school officials to investigate threats of a mass shooting and report their concerns to a law enforcement agency. Less clear is the outcome of the year’s biggest bill on homelessness issues, one that follows Newsom’s promise for a civil court process to order mental health services for those with certain schizophrenia-related illnesses. Senate Bill 1338 was sent to the Assembly on Wednesday but with significant questions remaining about costs and the complexity of the new legal and behavioral health operations. Newsom is putting considerable political capital into the effort.  Not every bill worth watching has received a lot of attention so far this year. Here are a half-dozen proposals that offer interesting policy debates in the weeks to come:  — Newsom signed a bill Monday to raise the amount of money that patients can receive in medical malpractice cases, increasing pain and suffering payments for the first time since lawmakers placed a cap on monetary damages nearly five decades ago. — California could soon hold social media companies responsible for harming children who have become addicted to their products, permitting parents to sue platforms such as Instagram and TikTok for up to $25,000 per violation under a bill that passed the state Assembly. — Six candidates have filed to run against state Supt. of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond for a four-year term as the leader of California schools in the June 7 primary. But none have the political advantages of the incumbent. — What’s behind the mystery mailer on efforts to oppose banning single-use plastics? The mailer could be an attempt to derail a November state ballot measure.  