NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Wednesday that the military alliance stands ready to seize a historic moment and move quickly on allowing Finland and Sweden to join its ranks, after the two countries submitted their membership requests. The official applications, handed over by Finland and Sweden’s ambassadors to NATO, set a security clock ticking. Russia, whose war on Ukraine spurred them to join the military organization, has warned that it wouldn’t welcome such a move and could retaliate. “I warmly welcome the requests by Finland and Sweden to join NATO. You are our closest partners,” Stoltenberg said. “All allies agree on the importance of NATO enlargement. We all agree that we must stand together, and we all agree that this is an historic moment which we must seize. “This is a good day at a critical moment for our security,” a beaming Stoltenberg said, as he stood alongside the two applicant countries’ envoys, with NATO, Finnish and Swedish flags at their backs. Russian President Vladimir Putin has demanded that the alliance stop expanding toward Russia’s borders. Several NATO allies, led by the U.S. and Britain, have signaled that they stand ready to provide security support to Finland and Sweden should Putin try to provoke or destabilize them during the time it takes for them to become full NATO members. The countries stand to benefit from NATO’s Article 5 security guarantee — the provision of the alliance’s founding treaty that pledges that any attack on one member would be considered an attack on them all — once the membership ratification process is concluded, probably in a few months. The move is one of the biggest geopolitical ramifications of the war in Ukraine and will redraw Europe’s security map. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson welcomed it, tweeting that “Putin’s appalling ambitions have transformed the geopolitical contours of our continent.”  For now, though, the applications must be weighed by the 30 member countries. That process is expected to take about two weeks, although Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has expressed reservations about Finland and Sweden joining. If his objections are overcome, and accession talks go as well as expected, the two could become members within a few months. The process usually takes eight to 12 months, but NATO wants to move quickly given the threat from Russia hanging over the Nordic countries. Canada, for example, says that it expects to ratify their accession protocol in just a few days, while in the Baltic region, Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas tweeted: “I encourage a rapid accession process. We in Estonia will do our part fast.” The fact that the two nations applied together means that they won’t lose time by having to be considered separately. “That Sweden and Finland go hand in hand is a strength. Now the process of joining the talks continues,” Swedish Foreign Minister Ann Linde told the Swedish news agency TT. It shouldn’t take long to win the approval of the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Their prime ministers issued a joint statement Wednesday saying that they “fully endorse and warmly welcome the historic decisions” taken in Helsinki and Stockholm. But Erdogan, Turkey’s leader, insisted Wednesday that Finland and Sweden must show more respect for Turkish sensitivities about terrorism. He refused to back down on his opposition to their membership in the alliance, citing their alleged support for Kurdish militants.  He accuses the two countries of turning a blind eye to the activities of the banned Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, even though the group is on the European Union’s anti-terror blacklist. “You will not hand over terrorists to us, but you will ask us to allow you to join NATO,” Erdogan said in an address to ruling party lawmakers. “NATO is a security entity. It is a security agency. Therefore, we cannot say yes to depriving this security organization of security.” Still, Stoltenberg said that NATO allies “are determined to work through all issues and reach rapid conclusions.” Public opinion in Finland and Sweden has shifted hugely in favor of membership since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Finland and Sweden cooperate closely with NATO. They have functioning democracies and well-funded armed forces, and they contribute to the alliance’s military operations and air policing. Any obstacles they face will be of a technical or possibly political nature. NATO’s membership process is not formalized, and the steps can vary. But first, the two countries’ requests to join will be examined in a sitting of the North Atlantic Council of the 30 member countries, probably at ambassadorial level. The council will decide whether to move toward accepting the applicant countries and what steps must be taken to achieve it. This mostly depends on how well-aligned the candidates are with NATO political, military and legal standards, and whether they contribute to security in the North Atlantic area. This should pose no substantial problem for Finland and Sweden. During accession talks that could be concluded in just one day once the terms of those negotiations are set, the two will be asked to commit to uphold Article 5 and to meet spending obligations concerning NATO’s in-house budget, which runs to around $2.5 billion, split proportionally among what would be 32 member countries. Finland and Sweden would also be made aware of their role in NATO defense planning and of any other legal or security obligations they might have, such as the vetting of personnel and handling of classified information.