A person with a suspected case of monkeypox is in isolation in Sacramento County, health officials said Tuesday. The person, who recently traveled to Europe, is isolating at home and isn’t in contact with other people. During a briefing Tuesday morning, Sacramento County Public Health Officer Dr. Olivia Kasirye said she was not able to provide the suspected patient’s gender or age but confirmed the person is a Sacramento County resident. She also said she could not get into specifics of the person’s travel arrangements. However, a Health Department statement said  the individual had “recently traveled to areas in Europe where cases of monkeypox have been confirmed.” Kasirye said a healthcare provider informed the department about the suspected case on Saturday. Preliminary testing was done at the county’s public health lab, and specimens were sent to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for confirmatory testing Monday. Kasirye said she did not have a timeline as to when those results might come back. But the county health statement said that, “based on symptoms and preliminary testing, monkeypox confirmation is likely.” Sacramento County is coordinating with the CDC and the California Department of Public Health “to identify and evaluate close contacts,” according to Kasirye. “There is minimal risk to the general public,” she said. Monkeypox is nowhere near as contagious as COVID-19 or other respiratory illnesses. Among humans, it generally requires prolonged close contact or contact with bodily fluids to transmit infection.  California state epidemiologist Dr. Erica Pan said that “the risk of monkeypox in the general population is very low,” and that the California Department of Public Health “is working quickly with local and federal health officials to ensure appropriate care and response, including contact tracing and post-exposure prevention for close contacts.” “Because the disease is rare, healthcare providers may not be familiar with the presentation of monkeypox, and the possibility of monkeypox transmission during intimate or sexual contact may not be well known,” she said in a statement. “As such, CDPH is promoting awareness amongst healthcare providers and the public, including appropriate infection control for monkeypox cases in the healthcare setting.” State health officials are also maintaining a webpage with the latest information, resources and advisories about the disease.  Although monkeypox can be fatal in countries where healthcare resources are poor, a previous monkeypox outbreak in the U.S. in 2003 did not lead to any deaths. Monkeypox causes symptoms similar to those of smallpox but are generally milder. The illness begins with fever, aches, swollen lymph nodes, chills and exhaustion, then later develops into a rash, usually starting on the face and then spreading to other parts of the bodies, turning into pus-filled sores before they fall off. “I think it’s important that if people are exhibiting some of the symptoms, especially if they have a rash that is unusual, that they contact their healthcare provider to have that checked out and make sure that if we need to do further investigation that we can do that right away,” Kasirye said. The illness can last two to four weeks. According to the World Health Organization, historically, between 0% and 11% of those with monkeypox infections have died from the disease, with the fatality rate higher among younger children. The last major monkeypox outbreak in the U.S. occurred in 2003, leading to 71 confirmed or suspected cases — mostly in Wisconsin, Indiana and Illinois. Those who were infected  had come in contact with pet prairie dogs obtained from an animal distributor in suburban Chicago that had been housed near Gambian giant rats and dormice that came from Ghana.